{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg10000\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;}{\f1\froman\fcharset77 Times-Italic;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldMT;}{\f3\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-BoldItalicMT;}{\f4\fswiss\fcharset77 ArialMT;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset77 Arial-ItalicMT;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green12\blue21;}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tqc\tx4512\lang1033\expndtw-3\kerning1\f0\fs24 An excerpt from \i\f1 Red Seas Under Red Skies\i0\f0\par
Copyright \'a9 Scott Lynch 2007\par
\i\f1 All rights reserved\par
\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tx0\i0\f0\par
\expndtw0 The right of Scott Lynch to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by him in accordance with the\par
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.\par
\par
\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tqc\tx4512 First published in Great Britain in 2007 by\par
Gollancz\par
An imprint of the Orion Publishing Group\par
Orion House, 5 Upper St Martin's Lane, London WC2H 9EA\par
\par
By permission of the author, this file may be freely copied and distributed\par
for the express reading pleasure of anyone wishing to sample the novel.\par
Any other use is strictly prohibited.\par
\par
Any spelling or usage errors found within this document\par
were inserted by evil gnomes, intent on misleading and confounding\par
the good readers of the internet. \par
\par
Questions?\par
scott@scottlynch.us\par
http://www.scottlynch.us\par
http://www.twitter.com/scottlynch78\par
\par
\cf1 This online preview of \i\f1 Red Seas Under Red Skies\i0\f0  contains several lengthy notes from the author, written primarily for the edification and enlightenment of those already familiar with \i\f1 RSURS\i0\f0 . First-time readers may wish to skip them entirely. Of course, some readers may wish to skip \i\f1 anything\i0\f0  I write in an editorial frame of mind entirely. To facilitate easier avoidance of my blather, I have placed these sections in bright red text, like this paragraph.  \cf0\par
\par
*****\fs22\par
\pard\ri720\qc\b\f2\fs24\par
\par
\par
\i\f3\fs36 RED SEAS UNDER RED SKIES\i0\f2\fs24\par
\pard\ri720\par
\pard\ri720\qc Scott Lynch\par
\pard\ri720\b0\f4\par
\par
\par
\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tqc\tx4512\f0 *****\f4\par
\pard\ri720\qc For Matthew Woodring Stover,\par
a friendly sail on the horizon.\par
\i\f5 Non destiti, nunquam desistam.\par
\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tqc\tx4512\i0\f0 *****\f4\par
\pard\ri720\qc\par
\par
\par
\page\par
\b\f2\fs28 Prologue: A Strained Conversation\fs24\par
\pard\ri720\b0\f4\par
\par
\tab Locke Lamora stood on the pier in Tal Verrar with the hot wind of a burning ship at his back and the cold bite of a loaded crossbow\rquote s bolt at his neck.\par
\par
\tab He grinned and concentrated on holding his own crossbow level with the left eye of his opponent; they were close enough that they would catch most of one another\rquote s blood, should they both twitch their fingers at the same time.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Be reasonable,\rquote  said the man facing him. Beads of sweat left visible trails as they slid down his grime-covered cheeks and forehead. \lquote Consider the disadvantages of your situation.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke snorted. \lquote Unless your eyeballs are made of iron, the disadvantage is mutual. Wouldn\rquote t you say so, Jean?\rquote\par
\par
\tab They were standing two-by-two on the pier, Locke beside Jean, their assailants beside one another. Jean and his foe were toe-to-toe with their crossbows similarly poised; four cold metal bolts were cranked and ready scant inches away from the heads of four understandably nervous men. Not one of them could miss at this range, not if all the gods above or below the heavens willed it otherwise.   \par
\par
\tab\lquote All four of us would appear to be up to our balls in quicksand,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab On the water behind them, the old galleon groaned and creaked as the roaring flames consumed it from the inside out. Night was made day for hundreds of yards around; the hull was crisscrossed with the white-orange lines of seams coming apart. Smoke boiled out of those hellish cracks in little black eruptions, the last shuddering breaths of a vast wooden beast dying in agony. The four men stood on their pier, strangely alone in the midst of light and noise that were drawing the attention of the entire city.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Lower your piece, for the love of the gods,\rquote  said Locke\rquote s opponent. \lquote We\rquote ve been instructed not to kill you if we don\rquote t have to.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And I\rquote m sure you\rquote d be honest if it were otherwise, of course,\rquote  said Locke. His smile grew. \lquote I make it a point never to trust men with weapons at my windpipe. Sorry.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Your hand will start to shake long before mine does.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ll rest the tip of my quarrel against your nose when I get tired. Who sent you after us? What are they paying you? We\rquote re not without funds; a happy arrangement could be reached.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Actually,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote I know who sent them.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Really?\rquote  Locke flicked a glance at Jean before locking eyes with his adversary once again. \par
\par
\tab\lquote And an arrangement has been reached, but I wouldn\rquote t call it happy.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Ah . . . Jean, I\rquote m afraid you\rquote ve lost me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No.\rquote  Jean raised one hand, palm out, to the man opposite him. He then slowly, carefully shifted his aim to his left until his crossbow was pointing at Locke\rquote s head. The man he\rquote d previously been threatening blinked in surprise. \lquote You\rquote ve lost \i\f5 me\i0\f4 , Locke.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean,\rquote  said Locke, the grin vanishing from his face, \lquote this isn\rquote t funny.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I agree. Hand your piece over to me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hand it over now. Smartly. You there, are you some kind of moron? Get that thing out of my face and point it at him.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean\rquote s former opponent licked his lips nervously, but didn\rquote t move. Jean ground his teeth together. \lquote Look, you sponge-witted dock ape, I\rquote m doing your job for you. Point your crossbow at my gods-damned partner so we can get off this pier!\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean, I would describe this turn of events as \i\f5 less than helpful\i0\f4 ,\rquote  said Locke, and he looked as though he might say more, except that Jean\rquote s opponent chose that moment to take Jean\rquote s advice. \par
\par
\tab It felt to Locke as if sweat was now cascading down his face, as though his own treacherous moisture was abandoning the premises before anything worse happened.    \par
\par
\tab\lquote There. Three on one.\rquote  Jean spat on the pier. \lquote You gave me no choice but to cut a deal with the employer of these gentlemen before we set out \endash  gods damn it, \i\f5 you\i0\f4  forced \i\f5 me\i0\f4 . I\rquote m sorry. I thought they\rquote d make contact before they drew down on us. Now give your weapon over.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean, what the \i\f5 hell\i0\f4  do you think you\rquote re\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Don\rquote t. \i\f5 Don\rquote t\i0\f4  say another fucking thing. Don\rquote t try to finesse me; I know you too well to let you have your say. Silence, Locke. Finger off the trigger and \i\f5 hand it over\i0\f4 .\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke stared at the steel-tipped point of Jean\rquote s quarrel, his mouth open in disbelief. The world around him faded to that tiny, gleaming point, alive with the orange reflection of the inferno blazing in the anchorage behind him. \par
\par
\tab\rquote I can\rquote t believe it,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote I just\emdash\ldblquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote This is the last time I\rquote m going to say this, Locke.\rquote  Jean ground his teeth together and held his aim steady, directly between Locke\rquote s eyes. \lquote Take your finger off the trigger and hand over your gods-damned weapon. \i\f5 Right now\i0\f4 .\rquote\par
\par
\cf1\tab Author's Notes: This prologue had something of a mixed effect on readers, based on the reviews I've read. Some have called it a pointless flash-forward, and I can't say that I agree-- otherwise I never would have put the damn thing in, \i\f5 n'est-ce pas?\i0\f4  Neither can I say they're entirely incorrect... all flash-forwards of this nature tend to be rather overt attempts to jump-start a story by waving a bit of premature kiss-kiss bang-bang at the audience.   \par
\par
\tab Ultimately, this lead-in was written as is for two major reasons. The first was that I felt a short, punchy prologue in the second Lamora novel would be the best complement to the much longer prologues in the first and third. The second was that I wrote it as what I thought was a rather obvious homage to the films of John Woo. Woo's work in the United States has been of variable quality, but his 'Heroic Bloodshed' films were a major influence on me as a teenager (and still are, honestly... for kinetic action and gunfight choreography, Woo's Hong Kong work leaves most American stuff in the dust, especially in the current era of overused CGI. But I digress! Boy, do I digress. The point is, in a series written with a cinematic idiom pretty firmly in mind, not all of my references and homages are going to be literary in origin. And, naturally, there's\par
nothing \i\f5 wrong\i0\f4  with not spotting or identifying them. Not everyone has the same collection of cultural flotsam and jetsam drifting around inside their cranium. \par
\par
\tab Fellow Woo-philes: I toyed with and discarded the notion of writing a flock of doves into the story as a background detail at some point. A gigantic shoot-out in a church may still be in the cards, however. \cf0\par
\par
\page\par
\pard\ri720\qc\b\f2\fs28 Book I\par
\par
CARDS IN THE HAND\par
\b0\f4\fs24\par
\b\f2\par
\par
\lquote If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: \par
the rules of the game, the stakes, and the quitting time.\rquote\par
\par
\i\f3 Chinese Proverb\par
\pard\ri720\b0\i0\f4\par
\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc\b\f2\fs28 CHAPTER ONE\par
LITTLE GAMES\fs24\par
\par
\par
1\par
\par
\pard\ri720\b0\f4\tab The game was Carousel Hazard, the stakes were roughly half of all the wealth they commanded in the entire world, and the plain truth was that Locke Lamora and Jean Tannen were begetting beaten like a pair of dusty carpets.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Last offering for the fifth hand,\rquote  said the velvet-coated attendant from his podium on one side of the circular table. \lquote Do the gentlemen choose to receive new cards?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No, no \endash  the gentlemen choose to confer,\rquote  said Locke, leaning to his left to place his mouth close to Jean\rquote s ear. He lowered his voice to a whisper. \lquote What\rquote s your hand look like?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A parched desert,\rquote  Jean murmured, casually moving his right hand up to cover his mouth. \lquote How\rquote s yours?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A wasteland of bitter frustration.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Shit.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Have we been neglecting our prayers this week? Did one of us fart in a temple or something?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote I thought the expectation of losing was all part of the plan.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It is. I just expected we\rquote d be able to put up a better fight than \i\f5 this\i0\f4 .\rquote\par
\par
\tab The attendant coughed demurely into his left hand, the card-table equivalent of slapping Locke and Jean across the backs of their heads. Locke leaned away from Jean, tapped his cards lightly against the lacquered surface of the table and grinned the best knew-what-he-was-doing sort of grin he could conjure from his facial arsenal. He sighed inwardly, glancing at the sizeable pile of wooden markers that was about to make the short journey from the centre of the table to his opponents\rquote  stacks. \par
\par
\tab\lquote We are of course prepared,\rquote  he said, \lquote to meet our fate with heroic stoicism, worthy of mention by historians and poets.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The dealer nodded. \lquote Ladies and gentlemen both decline last offering. House calls for final hands.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab There was a flurry of shuffling and discarding as the four players formed their final hands and set them, face down, on the table before them.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Very well,\rquote  said the attendant. \lquote Turn and reveal.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The sixty or seventy of Tal Verrar\rquote s wealthiest idlers who had crowded the room behind them to watch every turn of Locke and Jean\rquote s unfolding humiliation now leaned forward as one, eager to see how embarrassed they would be this time. \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 2\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Tal Verrar, the Rose of the Gods, at the westernmost edge of what the Therin people call the civilized world.\par
\par
\tab If you could stand in thin air a thousand yards above Tal Verrar\rquote s tallest towers, or float in lazy circles there like the nations of gulls that infest the city\rquote s crevices and rooftops, you would see how its vast, dark islands have given this place its ancient nickname. They whirl outward from the city\rquote s heart, a series of crescents steadily increasing in size, like the stylized petals of a rose in an artist\rquote s mosaic.\par
\par
\tab They are not natural, in the sense that the mainland looming a few miles to the north-east is natural. The mainland cracks before wind and weather, showing its age. The islands of Tal Verrar are unweathered, possibly unweatherable \endash  they are formed from the black glass of the Eldren, unimaginable quantities of it, endlessly tiered and shot through with passages, glazed with layers of stone and dirt from which a city of men and women springs. \par
\par
\tab This Rose of the Gods is surrounded by an artificial reef, a broken circle three miles in diameter, shadows under shadowed waves. Against this hidden wall the restless Sea of Brass is gentled for the passage of vessels flying the banners of a hundred kingdoms and dominions. Their masts and yards rise in a forest, white with furled sails, far beneath your feet.\par
\par
\tab If you could turn your eye to the city\rquote s western island, you would see that its interior surfaces are sheer black walls, plunging hundreds of feet to the softly lapping harbour waves, where a network of wooden docks clings to the base of the cliffs. The seaward side of the island, however, is tiered along its entire length. Six wide, flat ledges sit one atop the other with smooth fifty-foot escarpments backing all but the highest.  \par
\par
\tab The southernmost district of this island is called the Golden Steps \endash  its six levels are thick with alehouses, dicing dens, private clubs, brothels and fighting pits. The Golden Steps are heralded as the gambling capital of the Therin city-states, a place where men and women may lose money on anything from the mildest vices to the wickedest felonies. The authorities of Tal Verrar, in a magnanimous gesture of hospitality, have decreed that no foreigner upon the Golden Steps may be impressed into slavery. As a result, there are few places west of Camorr where it is safer for strangers to drink their brains out and fall asleep in the gutters and gardens. \par
\par
\tab There is rigid stratification on the Golden Steps; with each successively higher tier, the quality of the establishments increases, as do the size, number and vehemence of the guards at the doors. Crowning the Golden Steps are a dozen baroque mansions of old stone and witchwood, embedded in the wet, green luxury of manicured gardens and miniature forests. \par
\par
\tab These are the \lquote chance-houses of quality\rquote  \endash  exclusive clubs where men and women of funds may gamble in the style to which their letters of credit entitle them. These houses have been informal centres of power for centuries, where nobles, bureaucrats, merchants, ships\rquote  captains, legates and spies gather to wager fortunes, both personal and political. \par
\par
\tab Every possible amenity is contained within these houses. Notable visitors board carriage-boxes at exclusive docks at the base of the inner harbour cliffs and are hauled up by gleaming brass water engines, thereby avoiding the narrow, twisting, crowd-choked ramps leading up the five lower Steps on their seaward face. There is even a public duelling green \endash  a broad expanse of well-kept grass lying dead-centre on the top tier, so that cooler heads need not be given any chance to prevail when someone has their blood up.\par
\par
\tab The houses of quality are sacrosanct. Custom older and firmer than law forbids soldiers or constables to set foot within them, save for response to the most heinous crimes. They are the envy of a continent: no foreign club, however luxurious or exclusive, can quite recapture the particular atmosphere of a genuine Verrari chance-house. And they are, one and all, put to shame by the Sinspire.\par
\par
\tab Nearly one hundred and fifty feet tall, the Sinspire juts skyward at the southern end of the topmost tier of the Steps, which is itself more than two hundred and fifty feet above the harbour. The Sinspire is an Elderglass tower, glimmering with a pearly black sheen. A wide balcony decked with alchemical lanterns circles each of its nine levels. At night, the Sinspire is a constellation of lights in scarlet and twilight-sky blue, the heraldic colours of Tal Verrar. \par
\par
\tab The Sinspire is the most exclusive, most notorious and most heavily guarded chance-house in the world, open from sunset to sunrise for those powerful, wealthy or beautiful enough to make it past the whims of the doorkeepers. Each ascending floor outdoes the one beneath it for luxury, exclusivity and the risk ceiling of the games allowed. Access to each higher floor must be earned with good credit, amusing behaviour and impeccable play. Some aspirants spend years of their lives and thousands of Solari trying to catch the attention of the Sinspire\rquote s master, whose ruthless hold on his unique position has made him the most powerful arbiter of social favour in the city\rquote s history.  \par
\par
\tab The code of conduct at the Sinspire is unwritten, but as rigid as that of a religious cult. Most simply, most incontrovertibly, it is death to be caught cheating here. Were the Archon of Tal Verrar himself to be detected with a card up his sleeve, he would find no appeal this side of the gods themselves from the consequences. Every few months, the tower\rquote s attendants discover some would-be exception to the rule, and yet another person dies quietly of an alchemical overdose in their carriage, or tragically \lquote slips\rquote  from the balcony nine storeys above the hard, flat stones of the Sinspire\rquote s courtyard. \par
\par
\tab It has taken Locke Lamora and Jean Tannen two years and a completely new set of false identities to carefully cheat their way up to the fifth floor. \par
\par
\tab They are, in fact, cheating at this very moment, trying hard to keep up with opponents who have no need to do likewise.\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 3\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab\lquote Ladies show a run of Spires and a run of Sabres, crowned with the Sigil of the Sun,\rquote  said the attendant. \lquote Gentlemen show a run of Chalices and a mixed hand, crowned with the five of Chalices. Fifth hand is to the ladies.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab Locke bit the inside of his cheek as a wave of applause rippled through the warm air of the room. The ladies had taken four of the five hands so far, and the crowd had barely deigned to notice Locke and Jean\rquote s sole victory.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, damn,\rquote  said Jean, in credible mock surprise. \par
\par
\tab Locke turned to the opponent on his right. Maracosa Durenna was a slender, dark-complexioned woman in her late thirties, with thick hair the colour of oil smoke and several visible scars on her neck and forearms. In her right hand she held a thin, black cigar wrapped with gold thread, and on her face she wore a tight smile of detached contentment. The game was clearly not demanding her utmost exertion.   \par
\par
\tab The attendant flicked Locke and Jean\rquote s little pile of lost wooden counters toward the ladies\rquote  side of the table with a long-handled crop. He then used the same crop to sweep all the cards back into his hands; it was strictly forbidden for players to touch the cards after the attendant had called for the reveal.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, Madam Durenna,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote my congratulations on the increasingly robust state of your finances. Your purse would appear to be the only thing growing faster than my impending hangover.\rquote  Locke knuckle-walked one of his markers over the fingers of his right hand. The little wooden disc was worth five Solari, roughly eight months\rquote  pay for a common labourer.\par
\par
\tab\lquote My condolences on a particularly unfortunate run of cards, Master Kosta.\rquote  Madam Durenna took a long drag from her cigar, then slowly exhaled a stream of smoke so that it hung in the air between Locke and Jean, just far enough away to avoid direct insult. Locke had come to recognize that she used the cigar smoke as her \i\f5 strat p\'8eti\i0\f4 , her \lquote little game\rquote  \endash  an ostensibly civilized mannerism actually cultivated to distract or annoy opponents at a gaming table and goad them into making mistakes. Jean had planned to use his own cigars for the same purpose, but Durenna\rquote s aim was better. \par
\par
\tab\lquote No run of cards could be considered truly unfortunate in the presence of such a lovely pair of opponents,\rquote  said Locke. \par
\par
\tab\lquote I could almost admire a man who can stay so charmingly dishonest while being bled of all his silver,\rquote  said Durenna\rquote s partner, who was seated on Durenna\rquote s right, between her and the dealer.\par
\par
\tab Izmila Corvaleur was nearly of a size with Jean, wide and florid, prodigiously rounded in every place a woman \i\f5 could\i0\f4  be round. She was undeniably attractive, but the intelligence that shone out of her eyes was sharp and contemptuous. In her, Locke recognized a contained pugnacity akin to that of a street brawler \endash  a honed appetite for hard contests. Corvaleur nibbled constantly from a silver-gilded box of cherries coated in powdered chocolate, sucking her fingers loudly after each one. Her own \i\f5 strat p\'8eti\i0\f4 , of course.\par
\par
\tab She was purpose-built for Carousel Hazard, thought Locke. A mind for the cards and a frame capable of withstanding the game\rquote s unique punishment for losing a hand.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Default,\rquote  said the attendant. Within his podium, he tripped the mechanism that set the carousel spinning. This device, in the centre of the table, was a set of circular brass frames that held row upon row of tiny glass vials, each one capped with silver. It whirled under the soft lantern light of the gaming parlour until it became continuous streaks of silver within brass, and then \endash  a clinking sound of mechanisms beneath the table, the rattle of many tiny vessels of thick glass colliding with one another and the carousel spat out two of its vials. They rolled toward Locke and Jean and clattered against the slightly upraised outer rim of the table. \par
\par
\tab Carousel Hazard was a game for two teams of two; an \i\f5 expensive\i0\f4  game, for the clockwork carousel mechanism came very dear. At the end of each hand, the losing team was randomly dispensed two vials from the carousel\rquote s great store of little bottles; these held liquor, mixed with sweet oils and fruit juice to disguise the potency of any given drink. The cards were only one aspect of the game. Players also had to maintain concentration under the increasing effects of the devilish little vials. The only way a game could end was for a player to become too drunk to keep playing.\par
\par
\tab Theoretically, the game could not be cheated. The Sinspire maintained the mechanism and prepared the vials; the little silver caps were fastened tight over wax seals. Players were not permitted to touch the carousel, or another player\rquote s vials, on pain of immediate default. Even the chocolates and cigars being consumed by the players had to be provided by the house. Locke and Jean could have gone so far as to refuse to allow Madam Corvaleur the luxury of her sweets, but that would have been a bad idea for several reasons. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Well,\rquote  said Jean as he cracked the seal on his tiny libation, \lquote here\rquote s to charming losers, I suppose.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If only we knew where to find some,\rquote  said Locke, and in unison they tossed back their drinks. Locke\rquote s left a warm, plum-flavoured trail down his throat \endash  it was one of the potent ones. He sighed and set the empty vial down before him. Four vials to one, and the way his concentration seemed to be unravelling at the edges meant that he was beginning to feel it.\par
\par
\tab As the attendant sorted and shuffled the cards for the next hand, Madam Durenna took another long, satisfied draw on her cigar and flicked the ashes into a solid-gold pot set on pedestal behind her right hand. She exhaled two lazy streams of smoke through her nose and stared at the carousel from behind a grey veil. Durenna was a natural ambush predator, Locke thought, always most comfortable behind some camouflage. His information said that she was only recently arrived in the life of a city-bound merchant speculator. Her previous profession had been the command of bounty-privateers, hunting and sinking the slaver ships of Jerem on the high seas. She hadn\rquote t acquired those scars drinking tea in anyone\rquote s parlour.\par
\par
\tab It would be very, very unfortunate if a woman like her were to realize that Locke and Jean were counting on what Locke liked to call \lquote discreetly unorthodox methods\rquote  to win the game \endash  hell, it would be preferable to simply lose the old-fashioned way, or to be caught cheating by the Sinspire attendants. They, at least, would probably be quick and efficient executioners. They had a very busy establishment to run. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Hold the cards,\rquote  said Madam Corvaleur to the attendant, interrupting Locke\rquote s musings. \lquote Mara, the gentlemen have indeed had several hands of unfortunate luck. Might we not allow them a recess?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke concealed his instant excitement; the pair of Carousel Hazard partners who held the lead could offer their opponents a short break from the game, but the courtesy was rarely extended, for the obvious reason that it allowed the losers precious time to shake the effects of their liquor. Was Corvaleur trying to cover for some distress of her own?\par
\par
\tab\lquote The gentlemen \i\f5 have\i0\f4  seen a great deal of strenuous effort on our behalf, counting all those markers and pushing them over to us again and again.\rquote  Durenna drew smoke, expelled it. \lquote You would honour us, gentlemen, if you would consent to a short pause to refresh and recover yourselves.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab Ah. Locke smiled and folded his hands on the table before him. So that was the game \endash  play to the crowd and show off how little regard the ladies truly had for their opponents, how inevitable they considered their own victory. This was etiquette fencing, and Durenna had performed the equivalent of a lunge for the throat. Outright refusal would be terrible form; Locke and Jean\rquote s parry would have to be delicate.\par
\par
\tab\lquote How could anything be more refreshing,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote than to continue our game against such an excellent partnership?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re too kind, Master de Ferra,\rquote  said Madam Durenna. \lquote But would you have it said that we are heartless? You\rquote ve refused us neither of our comforts.\rquote  She used her cigar to gesture at Madam Corvaleur\rquote s sweets. \lquote Would you refuse us our desire to give a comfort in exchange?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We would refuse you nothing, Madam, and yet we would beg leave to answer your \i\f5 greater\i0\f4  desire, for which you\rquote ve troubled yourselves to come here tonight \endash  the desire to play.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote There are many hands yet before us,\rquote  added Locke, \lquote and it would wound Jerome and myself to inconvenience the ladies in any way.\rquote  He made eye contact with the dealer as he spoke. \par
\par
\tab\lquote You have thus far presented no inconvenience,\rquote  said Madam Corvaleur sweetly.\par
\par
\tab Locke was uncomfortably aware that the attention of the crowd was indeed hanging on this exchange. He and Jean had challenged the two women widely regarded as the best Carousel Hazard players in Tal Verrar, and a substantial audience had packed all the other tables on the fifth floor of the Sinspire. Those tables should have been hosting games of their own, but by some unspoken understanding between the house and its patrons, other action in the parlour had ceased for the duration of the slaughter.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Very well,\rquote  said Durenna. \lquote We\rquote ve no objection to continuing, for our sakes. Perhaps your luck may even turn.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke\rquote s relief that she had abandoned her conversational ploy was faint; she did, after all, have every expectation of continuing to thrash money out of him and Jean, like a cook might beat weevils from a bag of flour.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Sixth hand,\rquote  said the attendant. \lquote Initial wager will be ten Solari.\rquote  As each player pushed forward two wooden coins, the attendant tossed three cards down in front of them.\par
\par
\tab Madam Corvaleur finished another chocolate-dusted cherry and sucked the sweet residue from her fingers. Before touching his cards, Jean slid the fingers of his left hand briefly under the lapel of his coat and moved them, as though scratching an itch. After a few seconds, Locke did the same. Locke caught Madam Durenna watching them, and saw her roll her eyes. Signals between players were perfectly acceptable, but a bit more subtlety was preferred. \par
\par
\tab Durenna, Locke and Jean peeked at their cards almost simultaneously; Corvaleur was a moment behind them, with her fingers still wet. She laughed quietly. Genuine good fortune or \i\f5 strat p\'8eti\i0\f4 ? Durenna looked eminently satisfied, but Locke had no doubt she maintained that precise expression even in her sleep. Jean\rquote s face revealed nothing, and Locke for his part tried on a thin smirk, although his three opening cards were pure rubbish.\par
\par
\tab Across the room, a curving set of brass-railed stairs, with a large attendant guarding their foot, led up toward the sixth floor, briefly expanding into a sort of gallery on the way. A flicker of movement from this gallery caught Locke\rquote s attention: half-concealed in shadow was a slight, well-dressed figure. The warm golden light of the room\rquote s lanterns was reflected in a pair of optics, and Locke felt a shivery thrill of excitement along his spine. \par
\par
\tab Could it be? Locke tried to keep one eye on the shadowy figure while pretending to fixate on his cards. The glare on those optics didn\rquote t waver or shift \endash  the man was staring at their table, all right.     \par
\par
\tab At last, he and Jean had attracted (or stumbled into, and by the gods they\rquote d take that bit of luck) the attention of the man who kept his offices on the ninth floor \endash  Master of the Sinspire, clandestine ruler of all Tal Verrar\rquote s thieves, a man with an iron grip on the worlds of larceny and luxury both. In Camorr they would have called him \i\f5 capa\i0\f4 , but here he affected no title save his own name. \par
\par
\tab Requin. \par
\par
\tab Locke cleared his throat, turned his eyes back to the table and prepared to lose another hand with grace. Out on the dark water, the soft echo of ships\rquote  bells could be heard, ringing the tenth hour of the evening.  \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 4\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab\lquote Eighteenth hand,\rquote  said the dealer. \lquote Initial wager will be ten solari.\rquote  Locke had to push aside the eleven little vials before him, with a visibly shaking hand, to slide his buy-in forward. Madam Durenna, steady as a dry-docked ship, was working on her fourth cigar of the night. Madam Corvaleur seemed to be wavering in her seat; was she perhaps more red-cheeked than usual? Locke tried not to stare too intently as she placed her initial wager; perhaps the waver came solely from his own impending inebriation. It was nearing midnight, and the smoke-laced air of the stuffy room scratched at Locke\rquote s eyes and throat like wool. \par
\tab The dealer, emotionless and alert as ever \endash  he seemed to have more clockwork in him than the carousel did \endash  flicked three cards to the tabletop before Locke. Locke ran his fingers under his coat lapel, then peeked at his cards and said, \lquote Ahhhh-ha,\rquote  with a tone of interested pleasure. They were an astonishing constellation of crap; his worst hand yet. Locke blinked and squinted, wondering if the alcohol was somehow masking a set of decent cards, but alas \endash  when he concentrated again, they were still worthless.  \par
\par
\tab The ladies had been forced to drink last, but unless Jean concealed a major miracle on the tabletop to Locke\rquote s left, it was a good bet that another little vial would soon be rolling merrily across the table toward Locke\rquote s wobbling hand.\par
\par
\tab Eighteen hands, thought Locke, to lose nine hundred and eighty solari thus far. His mind, well lubricated by the Sinspire\rquote s liquor, wandered off on its own calculations. A year\rquote s worth of fine new clothes for a man of high station. A small ship. A very large house. The complete lifetime earnings of an honest artisan, like a stonemason. Had he ever pretended to be a stonemason?    \par
\par
\tab\lquote First options,\rquote  said the dealer, snapping him back to the game.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Card,\rquote  said Jean. The attendant slid one to him; Jean peeked at it, nodded and slid another wooden chit toward the centre of the table. \lquote Bid up.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hold fast,\rquote  said Madam Durenna. She moved two wooden chits forward from her substantial pile. \lquote Partner reveal.\rquote  She showed two cards from her hand to Madam Corvaleur, who was unable to contain a smile.\par
\pard\fi720\ri720\par
\lquote Card,\rquote  said Locke. The attendant passed him one, and he turned up an edge just far enough to see what it was. The two of Chalices, worth precisely one wet shit from a sick dog in this situation. He forced himself to smile. \lquote Bid up,\rquote  he said, sliding two markers forward. \lquote I\rquote m feeling blessed.\rquote\par
\pard\ri720\tab\par
\tab All eyes turned expectantly to Madam Corvaleur, who plucked a chocolate-dusted cherry from her dwindling supply, popped it into her mouth and then rapidly sucked her fingers clean. \lquote Oh-ho,\rquote  she said, staring down at her cards and drumming one set of sticky fingers gently on the table. \lquote Oh . . . ho . . . oh . . . Mara, this is . . . the oddest . . .\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab And then she slumped forward, settling her head onto her large pile of wooden markers on the tabletop. Her cards fluttered down, face-up, and she slapped at them, without coordination, trying to cover them up. \par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Izmila,\rquote  said Madam Durenna, a note of urgency in her voice. \lquote Izmila!\rquote  She reached over and shook her partner by her heavy shoulders.\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote\rquote Zmila,\rquote  Madam Corvaleur agreed in a sleepy, blubbering voice. Her mouth lolled open and she drooled remnants of chocolate and cherry onto her five-solari chits. \lquote Mmmmmmilllaaaaaaaaa. Verrry . . . odd . . . oddest . . .\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Play sits with Madam Corvaleur.\rquote  The dealer couldn\rquote t keep his surprise out of his voice. \lquote Madam Corvaleur must state a preference.\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Izmila! Concentrate!\rquote  Madam Durenna spoke in an urgent whisper.\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote There are . . . cards . . .\rquote  mumbled Corvaleur. \lquote Look out, Mara . . . soooo . . . many . . . cards. On table.\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab She followed that up with, \lquote Blemble . . . na . . . fla . . . gah.\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab And then she was out cold.   \par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Final default,\rquote  said the dealer after a few seconds. With his crop, he swept all of Madam Durenna\rquote s markers away from her, counting rapidly. Locke and Jean would take everything on the table. The looming threat of a thousand-solari loss had just become a gain of equal magnitude, and Locke sighed with relief.  \par
\tab\par
\tab The dealer considered the spectacle of Madam Corvaleur using her wooden markers as a pillow, and he coughed into his hand.\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen,\rquote  he said, \lquote the house will, ah, provide new chits of the appropriate value in place of . . . those still in use.\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Of course,\rquote  said Jean, gently patting the little mountain of Durenna\rquote s markers suddenly piled up before him. In the crowd behind them, Locke could hear noises of bewilderment, consternation and surprise. A light ripple of applause was eventually coaxed into existence by some of the more generous observers, but it died quickly. They were faintly embarrassed, rather than exhilarated, to see a notable like Madam Corvaleur inebriated by a mere six drinks.  \tab\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Hmmmph,\rquote  said Madam Durenna, stubbing out her cigar in the gold pot and rising to her feet. She made a show of straightening her jacket \endash  black brocaded velvet decorated with platinum buttons and cloth-of-silver, worth a good fraction of everything she\rquote d bet that night. \lquote Master Kosta, Master de Ferra . . . it appears we must admit to being outmatched.\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote But certainly not outplayed,\rquote  said Locke, summoning up a snake-charming smile along with the pulverized remnants of his wits. \lquote You very nearly had us . . . um, sewn up.\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote And the whole world is wobbling around me,\rquote  said Jean, whose hands were as steady as a jeweller\rquote s, and had been throughout the entire game.\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen, I have appreciated your stimulating company,\rquote  said Madam Durenna in a tone of voice that indicated she hadn\rquote t. \lquote Another game later this week, perhaps? Surely you must allow us a chance at revenge, for honour\rquote s sake.\rquote\par
\tab\par
\tab\lquote Nothing would please us more,\rquote  said Jean, to which Locke nodded enthusiastically, making the contents of his skull ache. At that, Madam Durenna coldly held out her hand and consented for the two of them to kiss the air above it. When they had done so, as though making obeisance to a particularly irritable snake, four of Requin\rquote s attendants appeared to help move the snoring Madam Corvaleur somewhere more decorous.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods, it must be tedious, watching us try to drink one another under the table night after night,\rquote  said Jean. He flipped the dealer a five-Solari chit; it was customary to leave a small gratuity for the attendant. \par
\par
\tab\lquote I don\rquote t believe so, sir. How would you like your change?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What change?\rquote  Jean smiled. \lquote Keep the whole thing.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The attendant betrayed human emotions for the second time that night; relatively well-off as he was, one little wooden chit was half again his annual salary. He stifled a gasp when Locke threw him another dozen.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Fortune is a lady who likes to be passed around,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Buy a house, maybe. I\rquote m having a little trouble counting at the moment.\rquote  \tab\par
\par
\tab\lquote Sweet gods \endash  \i\f5 many\i0\f4  thanks, gentlemen!\rquote  The attendant took a quick glance around and then spoke under his breath. \lquote Those two ladies don\rquote t lose very often, you know. In fact, this is the first time I can remember.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Victory has its price,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote I suspect my head will be paying it when I wake up tomorrow.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Madam Corvaleur was hauled carefully down the stairs, with Madam Durenna following to keep a close eye on the men carrying her card-partner. The crowd dispersed; those observers who remained at their tables called for attendants, food, new decks of cards for games of their own.\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean gathered their markers (fresh ones, sans slobber, were swiftly provided by the attendant to replace Madam Corvaleur\rquote s) in the customary velvet-lined wooden boxes and made their way to the stairs.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Congratulations, gentlemen,\rquote  said the attendant guarding the way up to the sixth floor. The tinkle of glass on glass and the murmur of conversation could be heard filtering down from above.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Thank you,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote I\rquote m afraid that something in Madam Corvaleur gave way just a hand or two before I might have done the same.\rquote\par
\par
\tab He and Jean slowly made their way down the stairs that curved all the way around the inside of the Sinspire\rquote s exterior wall. They were dressed as men of credit and consequence in the current height of Verrari summer fashion. Locke (whose hair had been alchemically shifted to a sunny shade of blond) wore a caramel-brown coat with a cinched waist and flaring knee-length tails; his huge triple-layered cuffs were panelled in orange and black and decorated with gold buttons. He wore no waistcoat, just a sweat-soaked tunic of the finest silk under a loose black neck-cloth. Jean was dressed similarly, though his coat was the greyish-blue of a sea under clouds, and his belly was cinched up with a wide black sash, the same colour as the short, curly hairs of his beard. \par
\par
\tab Down past floors of notables they went . . . past queens of Verrari commerce with their decorative young companions of both sexes on their arms like pets. Past men and women with purchased Lashani titles, staring across cards and wine decanters at lesser dons and don\'8bs from Camorr; past Vadran shipmasters in tight black coats, with sea-tans like masks over their sharp, pale features. Locke recognized at least two members of the \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4 , the collection of merchant councils that theoretically ruled Tal Verrar. Deep pockets appeared to be the primary qualification for membership.  \par
\par
\tab Dice fell and glasses clinked; celebrants laughed and coughed and cursed and sighed. Currents of smoke moved languidly in the warm air, carrying scents of perfume and wine, sweat and roast meats, and here and there the resiny hint of alchemical drugs.\par
\par
\tab Locke had seen genuine palaces and mansions before; the Sinspire, opulent as it was, was not so very much more handsome than the homes many of these people would be returning to when they finally ran out of night to play in. The real magic of the Sinspire was woven from its capricious exclusivity; deny something to enough people and sooner or later it will grow a mystique as thick as fog. \par
\par
\tab Nearly hidden at the rear of the first floor was a heavy wooden booth manned by several unusually large attendants. Luckily, there was no line. Locke set his box down on the counter-top beneath the booth\rquote s only window, a bit too forcefully.\par
\par
\tab\lquote All to my account.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote My pleasure, Master Kosta,\rquote  said the chief attendant as he took the box. Leocanto Kosta, merchant-speculator of Talisham, was well known in this kingdom of wine fumes and wagers. The attendant swiftly changed Locke\rquote s pile of wooden chits into a few marks on a ledger. In beating Durenna and Corvaleur, even minus his tip to the dealer, Locke\rquote s cut of the winnings came to nearly five hundred solari. \par
\par
\tab\lquote I understand that congratulations are in order to both of you, Master de Ferra,\rquote  said the attendant as Locke stepped back to let Jean approach the counter with his own box. Jerome de Ferra, also of Talisham, was Leocanto\rquote s boon companion. They were a pair of fictional peas in a pod.    \par
\par
\tab Suddenly, Locke felt a hand fall onto his left shoulder. He turned warily and found himself facing a woman with curly dark hair, richly dressed in the same colours as the Sinspire attendants. One side of her face was sublimely beautiful; the other side was a leathery brown half-mask, wrinkled as though it had been badly burned. When she smiled, the damaged side of her lips failed to move. It looked to Locke as though a living woman was somehow struggling to emerge from within a rough clay sculpture. \par
\par
\tab Selendri, Requin\rquote s major-domo. \par
\par
\tab The hand that she had placed on his shoulder (her left, on the burned side) wasn\rquote t real. It was a solid brass simulacrum, and it gleamed dully in the lantern light as she withdrew it.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote The house congratulates you,\rquote  she said in her eerie, lisping voice, \lquote for good manners as well as considerable fortitude, and wishes you and Master de Ferra to know that you would both be welcome on the sixth floor, should you choose to exercise the privilege.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke\rquote s smile was quite genuine. \lquote Many thanks, on behalf of myself and my partner,\rquote  he said with tipsy glibness. \lquote The kind regard of the house is, of course, extremely flattering.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab She nodded non-committally, then slipped away into the crowd as quickly as she\rquote d come. Eyebrows went up appreciatively here and there \endash  few of Requin\rquote s guests, to Locke\rquote s knowledge, were appraised of their increasing social status by Selendri herself.\par
\par
\tab\lquote We\rquote re a commodity in demand, my dear Jerome,\rquote  he said as they made their way through the crowd toward the front doors.\par
\par
\tab\lquote For the time being,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Master de Ferra.\rquote  The head doorman beamed as they approached. \lquote And \par
Master Kosta. May I call for a carriage?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No need, thanks,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote I\rquote ll fall over sideways if I don\rquote t flush my head with some night air. We\rquote ll walk.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Very good then, sir.\rquote\par
\par
\tab With military precision, four attendants held the doors open for Locke and Jean to pass. The two thieves stepped carefully down a wide set of stone steps covered with a red velvet carpet. That carpet, as the whole city knew, was thrown out and replaced each night. As a result, in Tal Verrar alone could one find armies of beggars routinely sleeping on piles of red velvet scraps.\par
\par
\tab The view was breathtaking; to their right, the whole crescent sweep of the island was visible beyond the silhouettes of other chance-houses. There was relative darkness in the north, in contrast to the aura-like glow of the Golden Steps. Beyond the city, to the south, west and north, the Sea of Brass gleamed phosphorescent silver, lit by three moons in a cloudless sky. Here and there the sails of distant ships reached up from the quicksilver tableau, ghostly pale.\par
\par
\tab Locke could gaze downward to his left and see across the staggered rooftops of the island\rquote s five lower tiers, a vertigo-inducing view despite the solidity of the stones beneath his feet. All around him was the murmur of human pleasure and the clatter of horse-drawn carriages on cobbles; there were at least a dozen moving or waiting along the straight avenue atop the sixth tier. Above, the Sinspire reared up into the opalescent darkness, its alchemical lanterns bright, like a candle meant to draw the attentions of the gods.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote And now, my dear professional pessimist,\rquote  said Locke as they stepped away from the Sinspire and acquired relative privacy, \lquote my worry-merchant, my tireless font of doubt and derision . . . what do you have to say to \i\f5 that\i0\f4 ?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh, very little, to be sure, Master Kosta. It\rquote s so hard to think, overawed as I am with the sublime genius of your plan.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote That bears some vague resemblance to sarcasm.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods forfend,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote You wound me! Your inexpressible criminal virtues have triumphed again, as inevitably as the tides come and go. I cast myself at your feet and beg for absolution. Yours is the genius that nourishes the heart of the world.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And now you\rquote re\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If only there was a leper handy,\rquote  interrupted Jean, \lquote so you could lay your hands on him and magically heal him\emdash\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh, you\rquote re just farting out of your mouth because you\rquote re jealous.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s possible,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Actually, we are substantially enriched, not caught, not dead, more famous and welcome on the next floor up. I must admit that I was wrong to call it a silly scheme.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Really? Huh.\rquote  Locke reached under his coat lapel as he spoke. \lquote Because I have to admit, it \i\f5 was\i0\f4  a silly scheme. Damned irresponsible. One drink more and I would have been finished. I\rquote m actually pretty bloody surprised we pulled it off.\rquote\par
\par
\tab He fumbled beneath his lapel for a second or two, then withdrew a little pad of wool about as wide and long as his thumb. A puff of dust was shaken from the wool when Locke slipped it into one of his outer pockets, and he wiped his hands vigorously on his sleeves as they walked along.\par
\par
\tab\lquote\ldblquote Nearly lost\rdblquote  is just another way to say \ldblquote finally won\rdblquote ,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Nonetheless, the liquor almost did me in. Next time I\rquote m that optimistic about my own capacity, correct me with a hatchet to the skull.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ll be glad to correct you with \i\f5 two\i0\f4 .\rquote  \par
\par
\tab It was Madam Izmila Corvaleur who\rquote d made the scheme possible. Madam Corvaleur, who\rquote d first crossed paths with \lquote Leocanto Kosta\rquote  at a gaming table a few weeks earlier, who had the reliable habit of eating with her fingers to annoy her opponents while she played cards. \par
\par
\tab Carousel Hazard really \i\f5 couldn\rquote t\i0\f4  be cheated by any traditional means. None of Requin\rquote s attendants would stack a deck, not once in a hundred years, not even in exchange for a dukedom. Nor could any player alter the carousel, select one vial in favour of another or serve a vial to anyone else. With all the usual means of introducing a foreign substance to another player guarded against, the only remaining possibility was for a player to do herself in by slowly, willingly taking in something subtle and unorthodox. Something delivered by a means beyond the ken of even a healthy paranoia.\par
\par
\tab Like a narcotic powder, dusted on the playing cards in minute quantities by Locke and Jean, then gradually passed around the table to a woman continually licking her fingers as she played.          \tab\par
\par
\tab\i\f5 Bela paranella\i0\f4  was a colourless, tasteless alchemical powder also known as \lquote the night friend\rquote . It was popular with rich people of a nervous disposition, who took it to ease themselves into deep, restful slumber. When mixed with alcohol, \i\f5 bela paranella\i0\f4  was rapidly effective in tiny quantities; the two substances were as complementary as fire and dry parchment. It would have been widely used for criminal purposes if not for the fact that it sold for twenty times its own weight in white iron. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods, that woman had the constitution of a war-galley,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote She must have started ingesting some of the powder by the third or fourth hand . . . probably could\rquote ve killed a pair of wild boars in heat with less.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote At least we got what we wanted,\rquote  said Jean, removing his own powder reservoir from his coat. He considered it for a moment, shrugged and slipped it into a pocket. \par
\par
\tab\lquote We did indeed . . . and I saw him!\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Requin. He was on the stairs, watching us for most of the hands in the middle game. We \i\f5 must\i0\f4  have aroused a personal interest.\rquote  The exciting ramifications of this helped clear some of the haze from Locke\rquote s thoughts. \lquote Why else send Selendri herself to pat our backs?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, assume you\rquote re correct. So what now? Do you want to push on with it, like you mentioned, or do you want to take it slow? Maybe gamble around on the fifth and sixth floors for a few more weeks?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A few more weeks? To hell with that. We\rquote ve been kicking around this gods-damned city for two years now; if we\rquote ve finally cracked Requin\rquote s shell, I say we bloody well go for it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re going to suggest tomorrow night, aren\rquote t you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote His curiosity\rquote s piqued. Let\rquote s strike while the blade is fresh from the forge.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I suspect that drink has made you impulsive.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Drink makes me see funny; the gods made me impulsive.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You there,\rquote  came a voice from the street in front of them. \lquote Hold it!\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke tensed. \lquote I beg your pardon?\rquote\par
\par
\tab A young, harried-looking Verrari man with long black hair was holding his hands out, palms facing toward Locke and Jean. A small, well-dressed crowd had gathered beside him, at the edge of a trim lawn that Locke recognized as the duelling green. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Hold it, sirs, I beg of you,\rquote  said the young man. \lquote I\rquote m afraid it\rquote s an affair, and there may be a bolt flying past. Might I beg of you to wait but a moment?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh. \i\f5 Oh.\i0\f4\rquote  Locke and Jean relaxed simultaneously. If someone was duelling with crossbows, it was common courtesy as well as good sense to wait beside the duelling ground until the shots were taken. That way, neither participant would be distracted by movement in the background, or accidentally bury a bolt in a passer-by.\par
\par
\tab The duelling green was about forty yards long and half as wide, lit by a soft white lantern hanging in a black iron frame at each of its four corners. Two duellists stood in the centre of the green with their seconds, each man casting four pale-grey shadows in a crisscross pattern. Locke had little personal inclination to watch, but he reminded himself that he was supposed to be Leocanto Kosta, a man of worldly indifference to strangers punching holes in one another. He and Jean squeezed into the crowd of spectators as unobtrusively as possible; a similar crowd had formed on the other side of the green.\par
\par
\tab One of the duellists was a very young man, dressed in fine, loose gentleman\rquote s clothing of a fashionable cut; he wore optics, and his hair hung to his shoulders in well-tended ringlets. \par
\par
\tab His red-jacketed opponent was a great deal older, a bit hunched over and weathered. He looked active and determined enough to pose a threat, however. Each man held a lightweight crossbow \endash  what Camorri thieves would call an alley-piece. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen,\rquote  said the younger duellist\rquote s second. \lquote Please. Can there be no accommodation?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If the Lashani gentleman will withdraw his imprecation,\rquote  added the younger duellist, his voice high and nervous, \lquote I would be eminently satisfied, with the merest recognition\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No, there \i\f5 cannot\i0\f4 ,\rquote  said the man standing beside the older duellist. \lquote His Lordship is not in the habit of tendering apologies for mere statements of obvious fact.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote . . . with the \i\f5 merest recognition\i0\f4 ,\rquote  continued the young duellist, desperately, \lquote that the incident was an unfortunate misunderstanding, and that it need not\emdash\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Were he to condescend to speak to you again,\rquote  said the older duellist\rquote s second, \lquote his Lordship would no doubt also note that you wail like a \i\f5 bitch\i0\f4 , and would enquire as to whether you\rquote re equally capable of biting like one.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The younger duellist stood speechless for a few seconds, then gestured rudely toward the older men with his free hand.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I am forced,\rquote  said his second, \lquote I am, ah, forced . . . to allow that there may be no accommodation. Let the gentlemen stand . . . back to back.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The two opponents walked toward one another \endash  the older man marched with vigour while the younger still stepped hesitantly \endash  and turned their backs to one another. \par
\par
\tab\lquote You shall have ten paces,\rquote  said the younger man\rquote s second, with bitter resignation. \lquote Wait then, and on my signal you may turn and loose.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Slowly he counted out the steps; slowly the two opponents walked away from one another. The younger man was shaking very badly indeed. Locke felt a ball of unaccustomed tension growing in his own stomach. Since when had he become such a damned soft-hearted fellow? Just because he preferred not to watch didn\rquote t mean he should be afraid to do so . . . yet the feeling in his stomach paid no heed to the thoughts in his head.\par
\par
\tab\lquote . . . nine . . . ten. Stand fast,\rquote  said the young duellist\rquote s second. \lquote Stand fast . . . \i\f5 Turn and loose!\i0\f4\rquote\par
\par
\tab The younger man whirled first, his face a mask of terror; he threw out his right hand and let fly. A sharp \i\f5 twang\i0\f4  sounded across the green. His opponent didn\rquote t even jerk back as the bolt hissed through the air beside his head, missing by at least the width of a hand. \par
\par
\tab The red-jacketed old man completed his own turn more slowly, his eyes bright and his mouth set into a scowl. His younger opponent stared at him for several seconds, as though trying to will his bolt to come flying back like a trained bird. He shuddered, lowered his crossbow and then threw it down to the grass. With his hands on his hips, he stood waiting, breathing in deep and noisy gulps. \par
\par
\tab His opponent regarded him briefly, then snorted. \lquote Be fucked,\rquote  he said, and he raised his crossbow in both hands. His shot was perfect; there was a wet crack and the younger duellist toppled with a feathered bolt dead in the centre of his chest. He fell onto his back, clawing at his coat and tunic, spitting up dark blood. Half a dozen spectators rushed toward him, while one young woman in a silver evening gown fell to her knees and screamed. \par
\par
\tab\lquote We\rquote ll get back just in time for dinner,\rquote  said the older duellist to nobody in particular. He tossed his own crossbow carelessly to the ground behind him and stomped off toward one of the nearby chance-houses, with his second at his side. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Sweet fucking Perelandro,\rquote  said Locke, forgetting Leocanto Kosta for a moment and thinking out loud. \lquote What a way to manage things.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You don\rquote t approve, sir?\rquote  A lovely young woman in a black silk dress regarded Locke with disconcertingly penetrating eyes. She couldn\rquote t have been more than eighteen or nineteen. \line\tab\lquote I understand that some differences of opinion need to be settled with steel,\rquote  said Jean, butting in, appearing to recognize that Locke was still a bit too tipsy for his own good. \lquote But standing before a crossbow bolt seems foolish. Blades strike me as a more honest test of skill.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Rapiers are tedious; all that back and forth, and rarely a killing strike right away,\rquote  said the young woman. \lquote Bolts are fast, clean and merciful. You can hack at someone all night with a rapier and fail to kill them.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I am quite compelled to agree with you,\rquote  muttered Locke.     \par
\par
\tab The woman raised an eyebrow but said nothing; a moment later she was gone, vanished into the dispersing crowd.\par
\par
\tab The contented murmur of the night \endash  the laughter and chatter of the small clusters of men and women making time beneath the stars \endash  had died briefly while the duel took place, but now it rose up once again. The woman in the silver dress beat her fists against the grass, sobbing, while the crowd around the fallen duellist seemed to sag in unison. The bolt\rquote s work was clearly done.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Fast, clean and merciful,\rquote  said Locke softly. \lquote Idiots.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab Jean sighed. \lquote Neither of us has any right to offer that sort of observation, since \ldblquote gods-damned idiots\rdblquote  is likely to be inscribed on our grave-markers.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ve had reasons for doing what I\rquote ve done, and so have you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m sure those duellists felt the same way.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Let\rquote s get the hell out of here,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Let\rquote s walk off the fumes in my head and get back to the inn. Gods, I feel old and sour. I see things like this and I wonder if I was that bloody stupid when I was that boy\rquote s age.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You were worse,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Until quite recently. Probably still are.\rquote  \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 5\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Locke\rquote s melancholy slowly evaporated, along with more of his alcoholic haze, as they made their way down and across the Golden Steps, north by north-east to the Great Gallery. The Eldren craftsmen (Craftswomen? Crafts\i\f5 things\i0\f4 ?) responsible for Tal Verrar had covered the entire district with an open-sided Elderglass roof that sloped downward from its peak atop the sixth tier and plunged into the sea at the western island\rquote s base, leaving at least thirty feet of space beneath it at all points in between. Strange twisted glass columns rose up at irregular intervals, looking like leafless climbing vines carved from ice. The glass ceiling of the Gallery was easily a thousand yards from end to end lengthwise.\par
\par
\tab Beyond the Great Gallery, on the lower layers of the island, was the Portable Quarter \endash  open-faced tiers on which the miserably destitute were allowed to set up squatters\rquote  huts and whatever shelters they could construct from cast-off materials. The trouble was that any forceful wind from the north, especially during the rainy winter, would completely rearrange the place.\par
\par
\tab Perversely, the district above and immediately south-east of the Portable Quarter, the Savrola, was a pricey expatriate\rquote s enclave, full of foreigners with money to waste. All the best inns were there, including the one Locke and Jean were currently using for their well-heeled alternate identities. The Savrola was sealed off from the Portable Quarter by high stone walls and heavily patrolled by Verrari constables and private mercenaries.\par
\par
\tab By day, the Great Gallery was the marketplace of Tal Verrar. A thousand merchants set up their stalls beneath it every morning, and there was room for five thousand more, should the city ever grow so vast. Visitors rooming in the Savrola who didn\rquote t travel by boat were forced, by cunning coincidence, to walk across the full breadth of the market to travel to or from the Golden Steps. \par
\par
\tab An east wind was up, blowing out from the mainland, across the glass islands and into the Gallery. Locke and Jean\rquote s footsteps echoed in the darkness of the vast hollow space; soft lamps on some of the glass pillars made irregular islands of light. Scraps of rubbish blew past their feet, and wisps of wood-smoke from unseen fires. Some merchants kept family members sleeping in particularly desirable locations all night . . . and of course there were always vagrants from the Portable Quarter, seeking privacy in the shadows of the empty Gallery. Patrols stomped through the Gallery tiers several times each night, but there were none in sight at the moment. \par
\par
\tab\lquote What a strange wasteland this place becomes after dark,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote I can\rquote t decide if I mislike it or if it enchants me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote d probably be less inclined to enchantment if you didn\rquote t have a pair of hatchets stuffed up the back of your coat.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmm.\rquote\par
\par
\tab They walked on for another few minutes. Locke rubbed his stomach and muttered to himself. \lquote Jean \endash  are you hungry, by chance?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I usually am. Need some more ballast for that liquor?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote I think it might be a good idea. Damn that carousel. Another losing hand and I might have proposed marriage to that gods-damned smoking dragoness. Or just fallen out of my chair.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, let\rquote s raid the Night Market.\rquote\par
\par
\tab On the topmost tier of the Great Gallery, toward the north-eastern end of the covered district, Locke could see the flickering light of barrel-fires and lanterns, and the shadowy shapes of several people. Commerce never truly ground to a halt in Tal Verrar; with thousands of people coming and going from the Golden Steps, there was enough coin floating around for a few dozen nocturnal stall-keepers to stake out a spot just after sunset every evening. The Night Market could be a great convenience, and it was invariably more eccentric than its daytime counterpart. \par
\par
\tab As Locke and Jean strolled toward the bazaar with the night breeze blowing against them, they had a fine view of the inner harbour with its dark forest of ships\rquote  masts. Beyond that, the rest of the city\rquote s islands lay sensibly sleeping, dotted here and there with specks of light rather than the profligate glow of the Golden Steps. At the heart of the city, the three crescent islands of the Great Guilds (Alchemists, Artificers and Merchants) curled around the base of the high, rocky \i\f5 Castellana\i0\f4  like slumbering beasts. And atop the \i\f5 Castellana\i0\f4 , like a looming stone hill planted in a field of mansions, was the dim outline of the Mon Magisteria, the fortress of the Archon.\par
\par
\tab Tal Verrar was supposedly ruled by the \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4 , but in reality a significant degree of power rested in the man who resided in that palace, the city\rquote s master of arms. The office of the Archon had been created following Tal Varrar\rquote s early disgraces in the Thousand-Day War against Camorr, to take command of the army and navy out of the hands of the bickering merchant councils. But the trouble with creating military dictators, Locke reflected, was getting rid of them after the immediate crisis was past. The first Archon had \lquote declined\rquote  retirement, and his successor was, if anything, even more interested in interfering with civic affairs. Outside guarded bastions of frivolity like the Golden Steps and expatriate havens like the Savrola, the disagreements between Archon and \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4  kept the city on edge.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen!\rquote  came a voice from their left, breaking into Locke\rquote s chain of thought. \lquote Honoured sirs. A walk across the Great Gallery cannot possibly be complete without refreshment.\rquote  Locke and Jean had reached the fringes of the Night Market; there were no other customers in sight, and the faces of at least a dozen merchants stared keenly out at them from within their little circles of fire- or lamplight. \par
\par
\tab The first Verrari to throw his pitch against the gates of their good judgment was a one-armed man getting on in years, with long white hair braided down to his waist. He waved a wooden ladle at them, indicating four small casks set atop a portable counter not unlike a flat-topped wheelbarrow.\par
\par
\tab\lquote What\rquote s your fare?\rquote  Locke asked.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Delicacies from the table of Iono himself, the sweetest taste the sea has to offer. Sharks\rquote  eyes in brine, all fresh-plucked. Crisp the shells, soft the humours, sweet the juices.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Sharks\rquote  eyes? Gods, no.\rquote  Locke grimaced. \lquote Have you more common flesh? Liver? Gills? A gill-pie would be welcome.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gills? Sir, gills have none of the virtues of the eyes; it is the eyes that tone the muscles, prevent cholera and firm up a man\rquote s mechanisms for certain, ah, marital duties.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I have no need of any mechanism-firming in that respect,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote And I\rquote m afraid my stomach is too unsettled for the splendour of sharks\rquote  eyes just at the moment.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A pity, sir. For your sake, I wish I had some bit of gill to offer you, but it\rquote s the eyes that I get, and little else. Yet I do have several types \endash  scythe sharks, wolf sharks, blue widower\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We must pass, friend,\rquote  said Jean, as he and Locke walked on.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Fruit, worthy masters?\rquote  The next merchant along was a slender young woman comfortably ensconced in a cream-coloured frock coat several sizes too large for her; she also wore a four-cornered hat with a small alchemical globe dangling from it on a chain, hanging down just above her left shoulder. She stood watch over a number of woven baskets. \lquote Alchemical fruit, fresh hybrids. Have you ever seen the Sofia Orange of Camorr? It makes its own liquor, very sweet and powerful.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We are . . . acquainted,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote And more liquor is not what I had in mind. Anything to recommend for an unsettled stomach?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Pears, sir. The world would have no unsettled stomachs if only we were all wise enough to eat several every day.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab She took up one basket, about half-full, and held it up before him. Locke sifted through the pears, which felt firm and fresh enough, and drew out three. \lquote Five Centira,\rquote  said the fruit-seller.\par
\par
\tab\lquote A full Volani?\rquote  Locke feigned outrage. \lquote Not if the Archon\rquote s favourite whore held them between her legs and wiggled for me. One centira is too much for the lot.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote One Centira wouldn\rquote t buy you the stems. At least I won\rquote t lose money for four.\rquote\par
\tab\lquote It would be an act of supreme pity,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote for me to give you two. Fortunately for you I\rquote m brimming with largesse; the bounty is yours.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Two would be an insult to the men and women who grew those in the hot-glass gardens of the Blackhands Crescent. But surely we can meet at three?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Three,\rquote  said Locke with a smile. \lquote I have never been robbed in Tal Verrar before, but I\rquote m just hungry enough to allow you the honour.\rquote  He passed two of the pears to Jean without looking, while fumbling in one of his coat pockets for copper. When he tossed three coins to the fruit-seller, she nodded.\par
\par
\tab\lquote A good evening to you, Master Lamora.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke froze and fixed his eyes on her. \lquote I beg your pardon?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A good evening to you is all I said, worthy master.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You didn\rquote t . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Didn\rquote t what?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Ah, nothing.\rquote  Locke sighed nervously. \lquote I had a bit too much to drink, is all. A fair evening to you, as well.\rquote\par
\par
\tab He and Jean strolled away, and Locke took a tentative bite of his pear. It was in a fine state, neither too firm and dry nor too ripe and sticky. \lquote Jean,\rquote  he said between bites, \lquote did you hear what she said to me, just now?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m afraid I heard nothing but the death-cry of this unfortunate pear. Listen closely: \ldblquote Noooo, don\rquote t eat me, please, nooo . . .\rdblquote\rquote  Jean had already reduced his first pear to its core; as Locke watched, he popped this into his mouth, crunched it loudly and swallowed it all but for the stem, which he flicked away.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Thirteen Gods,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote\i\f5 must\i0\f4  you do that?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I like the cores,\rquote  said Jean sulkily. \lquote All the little crunchy bits.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote\i\f5 Goats\i0\f4  eat the gods-damned crunchy bits.\rquote\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re not my mother.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, true. Your mother would be ugly. Oh, don\rquote t give me that look. Go on, eat your other core; it\rquote s got a nice juicy pear wrapped around it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What did the woman say?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote She said . . . oh, gods, she said nothing. I\rquote m tipsy, is all.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Alchemical lanterns, sirs?\rquote  A bearded man held his arm out toward them; at least half a dozen little lanterns in ornamental gilt frames hung from it. \lquote A pair of well-dressed gentlemen should not be without light; only scrubs scuttle about in darkness with no way to see! You\rquote ll find no better lanterns in all the Gallery, not by night or day.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean waved the man off while he and Locke finished their pears. Locke carelessly tossed his core over his shoulder, while Jean popped his into his mouth, taking pains to ensure that Locke was watching when he did. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmmmmm,\rquote  he muttered with a half-full mouth, \lquote ambrosial. But you\rquote ll never know, you and all your fellow culinary cowards.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen. Scorpions?\rquote\par
\par
\tab That brought Locke and Jean up short. The speaker was a cloaked, bald-headed man with the coffee-coloured skin of an Okanti islander; the man was several thousand miles from home. His well-kept white teeth stood out as he smiled and bowed slightly over his wares. He stood over a dozen small wooden cages; dark shapes could be seen moving about in several of them.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Scorpions? Real scorpions? Live ones?\rquote  Locke bent down to get a better look at the cages, but kept his distance. \lquote What on earth for?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Why, you must be fresh visitors here.\rquote  The man\rquote s Therin had a slight accent. \lquote Many on the Sea of Brass are only too familiar with the grey rock scorpion. Can you be Karthani? Camorri?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Talishani,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote These are grey rock scorpions, from here?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote From the mainland,\rquote  said the merchant. \lquote And their use is primarily, ahh, recreational.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Recreational? Are they pets?\rquote    \par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh no, not really. The sting, you see \endash  the sting of the grey rock scorpion is a complex thing. First there is pain, sharp and hot, as you might expect. But after a few minutes, there is a pleasant numbness, a dreamy sort of fever. It is not unlike some of the powders smoked by Jeremites. After a few stings, a body grows more used to it. The pain lessens and the dreams deepen.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Astonishing!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Commonplace,\rquote  said the merchant. \lquote Quite a few men and women in Tal Verrar keep one close at hand, even if they don\rquote t speak of it in public. The effect is as pleasing as liquor, yet ultimately far less costly.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hmmm.\rquote  Locke scratched his chin. \lquote Never had to stab myself with a bottle of wine, though. And this isn\rquote t just some ruse, some amusement for visitors who wouldn\rquote t know any better?\rquote\par
\par
\tab The merchant\rquote s smile broadened. He extended his right arm and pulled back the sleeve of his cloak; the dark skin of his slender forearm was dotted with little circular scars. \lquote I would never offer a product for which I was not prepared to vouch myself.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Admirable,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote And fascinating, but . . . perhaps there are some customs of Tal Verrar best left unexplored.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote To your own tastes be true.\rquote  Still smiling, the man pulled his cloak-sleeve back down and folded his hands before him. \lquote After all, a scorpion \i\f5 hawk\i0\f4  was never to your liking, Master Lamora.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke felt a sudden cold pressure in his chest. He flicked a glance at Jean and found the larger man instantly tense as well. Struggling to maintain his outward calm, Locke cleared his throat. \lquote I beg your pardon?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m sorry.\rquote  The merchant blinked at him guilelessly. \lquote I merely wished you a pleasant night, gentlemen.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Right.\rquote  Locke eyed him for a moment or two longer, then stepped back, t\par
turned on his heel and began to walk across the Night Market once more. Jean was at his side immediately.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You heard that,\rquote  whispered Locke.\par
\pard\fi720\ri720\par
\lquote Very clearly,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote I wonder who our friendly scorpion-merchant works for?\rquote\par
\pard\ri720\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s not just him,\rquote  muttered Locke. \lquote The fruit-seller called me \ldblquote Lamora\rdblquote  as well. You didn\rquote t hear that one, but I damn well did.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Shit. Want to double back and grab one of them?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Going somewhere, Master Lamora?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke almost whirled on the middle-aged female merchant who stepped toward them from their right; he managed to keep the six-inch stiletto concealed up his right sleeve from flying reflexively into his hand. Jean slid one arm beneath the back of his coat.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You appear to be mistaken, madam,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote My name is Leocanto Kosta.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The woman made no further move toward them; she merely smiled and chuckled. \lquote Lamora . . . Locke Lamora.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean Tannen,\rquote  said the scorpion-merchant, who had stepped out from behind his little cage-covered table. Other merchants were moving slowly behind them, staring fixedly at Locke and Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote There seems to be a, ah, \i\f5 misunderstanding\i0\f4  afoot,\rquote  said Jean. He slid his right hand back out from under his coat; Locke knew from long experience that the head of one of his hatchets would be cupped in his palm, with the handle concealed up his sleeve. \par
\par
\tab\lquote No misunderstanding,\rquote  said the scorpion-merchant.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Thorn of Camorr . . .\rquote  said a little girl who stepped out to block their progress toward the Savrola side of the Great Gallery. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Thorn of Camorr . . .\rquote  said the middle-aged woman.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen Bastards,\rquote  said the scorpion-merchant. \lquote Far from home.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke glanced around, his heart hammering in his chest. Deciding that the time for discretion was past, he let a stiletto fall into his itching fingers. All the merchants in the Night Market appeared to have taken an interest in them; they were surrounded, and the merchants were slowly tightening the circle. They cast long, dark shadows upon the stones at Locke and Jean\rquote s feet. Was Locke imagining things, or were some of the lights dimming? Already the Night Gallery looked darker \endash  damn, some of the lanterns were indeed going out right before his eyes.\par
\par
\tab\lquote That is \i\f5 far enough\i0\f4 .\rquote  Jean let his hatchet fall visibly into his right hand; he and Locke pressed their backs together.\par
\par
\tab\lquote No closer,\rquote  shouted Locke. \lquote Cut the weird shit or there\rquote s going to be blood!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote There has already been blood . . .\rquote  said the little girl.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Locke Lamora . . .\rquote  muttered a soft chorus of the people surrounding them.\par
\par
\tab\lquote There has already been blood, Locke Lamora,\rquote  said the middle-aged woman.\par
\par
\tab The last alchemical lanterns within the periphery of the Night Market dimmed; the last few fires banked down, and now Locke and Jean faced the circle of merchants solely by the wan light coming from the inner harbour, and from the eerie flicker of distant lamps beneath the vast, deserted Gallery, much too far away for comfort.\tab\par
\par
\tab The little girl took one last step toward them, her eyes grey and unblinking. \lquote Master Lamora, Master Tannen,\rquote  she said in her clear, soft voice, \lquote the Falconer of Karthain sends his regards.\rquote  \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 6\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Locke stared at the little girl, jaw half-open. She glided forward like an apparition, until just two paces separated them. Locke felt a pang of foolishness at holding a stiletto on a girl not yet three feet high, but then she smiled coldly in the near-darkness, and the malice behind that smile steadied his hand on the hilt of the blade. The little girl reached up to touch her chin.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Though he cannot speak,\rquote  she said.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Though he cannot speak for himself . . .\rquote  chorused the circle of merchants, now motionless in the darkness.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Though he is mad,\rquote  said the girl, slowly spreading her hands toward Locke and Jean, palms out.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mad with pain, mad beyond measure . . .\rquote  whispered the circle.\par
\par
\tab\lquote His friends remain,\rquote  said the girl. \lquote His friends remember.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke felt Jean move against his back, and then both of his hatchets w\par
were out, blackened-steel heads naked to the night. \lquote These people are puppets. There are Bondsmagi somewhere around us,\rquote  he hissed.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Show yourselves, you fucking cowards!\rquote  said Locke, speaking to the girl. \par
\par
\tab\lquote We show our power,\rquote  she replied.\par
\par
\tab\lquote What more do you need . . .\rquote  whispered the chorus in their ragged circle, their eyes empty as reflecting pools.\par
\par
\tab\lquote What more do you need to see, Master Lamora?\rquote  The little girl gave a sinister parody of a curtsey.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Whatever you want,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote leave these people out of it. Just fucking talk to us. We don\rquote t want to hurt these people.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of \i\f5 course\i0\f4 , Master Lamora . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course . . .\rquote  whispered the circle.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course, that\rquote s the \i\f5 point\i0\f4 ,\rquote  said the girl. \lquote So you must hear what we have to say.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote State your gods-damned business, then.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote You must answer,\rquote  said the girl.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Answer for the Falconer,\rquote  said the chorus.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You must answer. Both of you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of all the . . . \i\f5 fuck you\i0\f4 !\rquote  said Locke, his voice rising to a shout. \lquote We \i\f5 did\i0\f4  answer for the Falconer. Our answer was ten lost fingers and a lost tongue, for three dead friends. You got him back alive and it was more than he deserved!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Not for you to judge,\rquote  hissed the girl.\par
\par
\tab\lquote . . . judge the Magi of Karthain . . .\rquote  whispered the circle. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Not for you to judge, nor for you to presume to grasp our laws,\rquote  said the girl.\par
\par
\tab\lquote All the world knows it\rquote s death to slay a Bondsmage,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote That, and little else. We let him live and took pains to return him to you. Our business is ended. If you wanted a more complicated treatment than that, you should have sent a fucking letter.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote This is not business,\rquote  said the girl.\par
\par
\tab\lquote But personal,\rquote  said the circle.\par
\par
\tab\lquote\i\f5 Personal,\i0\f4\rquote  repeated the girl. \lquote A brother has been blooded; we cannot let this stand unanswered.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You sons of bitches,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote You really think you\rquote re fucking gods, don\rquote t you? I didn\rquote t mug the Falconer in an alley and take his purse. \i\f5 He helped murder my friends!\i0\f4  I\rquote m not sorry he\rquote s mad and I\rquote m \i\f5 not\i0\f4  sorry for the rest of you! Kill us and get on with your business, or piss off and let these people go free.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No,\rquote  said the scorpion-merchant. A whispered chorus of \lquote no\rquote  echoed around the circle.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Cowards. Pissants!\rquote  Jean pointed one of his hatchets at the little girl as he spoke. \lquote You can\rquote t scare us with this penny-theatre bullshit!\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote If you force us to,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote we\rquote ll fight you with the weapons in our hands, all the way to Karthain. You bleed like the rest of us. Seems to me all you \i\f5 can\i0\f4  do is kill us.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote No,\rquote  said the girl, giggling.\par
\par
\tab\lquote We can do worse,\rquote  said the fruit-seller.\par
\par
\tab\lquote We can let you live,\rquote  said the scorpion-merchant.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Live, uncertain,\rquote  said the girl.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Uncertain . . .\rquote  chorused the merchants as they began to step backwards, widening their circle.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Watched,\rquote  said the girl. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Followed,\rquote  said the circle.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Now wait,\rquote  said the girl. \lquote Run your little games, and chase your little fortunes      . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And wait,\rquote  whispered the chorus. \lquote Wait for our answer. Wait for our time.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You are always in our reach,\rquote  said the little girl, \lquote and you are always in our sight.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Always,\rquote  whispered the circle, slowly dispersing back to their stalls, back to the positions they\rquote d held just a few minutes earlier.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote You will meet misfortune,\rquote  said the little girl as she slipped away. \lquote For the Falconer of Karthain.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean said nothing as the merchants around them resumed their places in the Night Market, as the lanterns and barrel-fires gradually rose once more to flush the area with warm light. Then the affair was ended; the merchants resumed their former attitudes of keen interest or watchful boredom, and the babble of conversation rose up around them again. Locke and Jean quickly slipped their weapons out of sight before anyone noticed them.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods,\rquote  said Jean, shuddering visibly.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I suddenly feel,\rquote  Locke said quietly, \lquote that I didn\rquote t drink nearly enough from that bloody carousel.\rquote  There was mist at the edges of his vision; he put a hand to his cheeks and was surprised to find himself crying. \lquote Bastards,\rquote  he muttered. \lquote Infants. Wretched cowardly show-offs.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes,\rquote  said Jean.  \par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean began to walk forward once again, glancing warily around. The little girl who had done most of the speaking for the Bondsmagi was now sitting beside an elderly man, sorting through little baskets of dried figs under his supervision. She smiled shyly as they passed. \par
\par
\tab\lquote I hate them,\rquote  whispered Locke. \lquote I hate \i\f5 this\i0\f4 . Do you think they\rquote ve really got something planned for us, or was that just a put-on?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I suppose it works either way,\rquote  said Jean with a sigh. \lquote Gods. \i\f5 Strat p\'8eti.\i0\f4  Do we flinch, or do we keep betting? Worst case, we\rquote ve got a few thousand solari on account at the \rquote Spire. We could cash out, take a ship, be gone before noon tomorrow.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Where to?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Anywhere else.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote There\rquote s no running from these arseholes, not if they\rquote re serious.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes, but\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Fuck Karthain.\rquote  Locke clenched his fists. \lquote You know, I think I understand. I think I understand how the Grey King could feel the way he did. I\rquote ve never even been there, but if I could \i\f5 smash\i0\f4  Karthain, burn the fucking place, make the sea swallow it . . . I\rquote d do it. Gods help me, I\rquote d do it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean suddenly came to a complete stop. \lquote There\rquote s . . . another problem, Locke. Gods forgive me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Even if you stay . . . I shouldn\rquote t. I\rquote m the one who should be gone, as far from you as possible.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What the \i\f5 fuck\i0\f4  nonsense is this?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote They know my name!\rquote  Jean grabbed Locke by his shoulders, and Locke winced; that stone-hard grip didn\rquote t agree with the old wound beneath his left clavicle. Jean immediately realized his mistake and loosened his fingers, but his voice remained urgent. \lquote My \i\f5 real\i0\f4  name, and they can use it. They can make me a puppet, like these poor people. I\rquote m a threat to you every moment I\rquote m around you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I don\rquote t bloody well care that they know your name! Are you mad?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No, but you\rquote re still drunk, and you\rquote re not thinking straight.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I certainly am! Do you \i\f5 want\i0\f4  to leave?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No! Gods, no, of course not! But I\rquote m\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Shutting up right this second if you know what\rquote s good for you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You need to understand that you\rquote re in danger!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course I\rquote m in danger. I\rquote m \i\f5 mortal\i0\f4 . Jean, gods love you, I will \i\f5 not\i0\f4  fucking send you away, and I will not let you send yourself away! We lost Calo, Galdo and Bug. If I send you away, I lose the last friend I have in the world. Who wins then, Jean? Who\rquote s protected \i\f5 then\i0\f4 ?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean\rquote s shoulders slumped, and Locke suddenly felt the beginning of the transition from fading inebriation to pounding headache. He groaned. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean, I will never stop feeling awful for what I put you through in Vel Virazzo. And I will never forget how long you stayed with me when you should have tied weights around my ankles and thrown me in the bay. Gods help me, I will \i\f5 never\i0\f4  be better off without you. I don\rquote t care how many Bondsmagi know your damned name.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I wish I could be sure you knew best about this.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote This is our life,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote This is our game, that we\rquote ve put \i\f5 two years\i0\f4  into. That\rquote s our fortune, waiting for us to steal it at the Sinspire. That\rquote s all our hopes for the future. So fuck Karthain. They want to kill us, we can\rquote t stop them. So what else can we do? I won\rquote t jump at shadows on account of those bastards. \i\f5 On with it!\i0\f4  Both of us together.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Most of the Night Market merchants had taken note of the intensity of Locke and Jean\rquote s private conversation and had avoided making further pitches. But one of the last merchants on the northern fringe of the Night Market was either less sensitive or more desperate for a sale, and called out to them.  \tab  \tab  \par
\tab\lquote Carved amusements, gentlemen? Something for a woman or a child in your lives? Something artful from the City of Artifice?\rquote  The man had dozens of exotic little toys on an upturned crate. His long, ragged brown coat was lined on the inside with quilted patches in a multitude of garish colours \endash  orange, purple, cloth-of-silver, mustard yellow. He dangled the painted wood figure of a spear-carrying soldier by four cords from his left hand, and with little gestures of his fingers he made the figure thrust at an imaginary enemy. \lquote A marionette? A little puppet, for memory of Tal Verrar?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean stared at him for a few seconds before responding. \lquote For memory of Tal Verrar,\rquote  he said, quietly, \lquote I would want anything, beg pardon, before I would want a puppet.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean said nothing else to one another. With an ache around his heart to match the one growing in his head, Locke followed the bigger man out of the Great Gallery and into the Savrola, eager to be back behind high walls and locked doors, for what little it might prove to be worth.\par
\par
\cf1\tab Author's Notes: The two questions I get most often about this chapter are, "What game is Carousel Hazard based on?" and "Do you have a set of actual rules and a card list for it?"\par
\par
\tab The answer to the first question is that C.H., as far as I know, was pulled entirely from that limitless reservoir of timely invention, the Author's Posterior. I had a vision of a refined gambling game requiring some sort of awkward, expensive mechanical doohickey, to emphasize that it was a rare game for the moneyed classes, rather like roulette. You can play poker or craps just about anywhere, but nobody keeps a roulette wheel under their jacket. \par
\par
\tab As to the second, no. All I did, in setting down the description of the game, was try not to actively contradict myself. Some enterprising soul, I'm sure, could take the game scenes and the rather thorough description of a deck of cards in Locke's world provided in 'Chapter 2: Requin', and from those clues come up with something smarter than I might have. \par
\par
\tab The Sinspire is based on a real-world location described by Ian Fleming in his book \i\f5 Thrilling Cities\i0\f4 , which collects a set of articles he wrote in 1959-60 for the Sunday Times. Fleming toured about a dozen "exotic and infamous" locales around the world, including reverently traditional fleshpots and newly post-colonial tourist traps, prowling and harrumphing as a somewhat grumpy middle-aged journalist rather than a loose young intelligence officer. One of the more interesting things he described was a "pagoda of sin," six stories of vice and gambling. Dock workers and petty crooks would play cheap games on the ground floor, tourists and respectable citizens would have the middle floors, and the very rich and famous would have the top level. Supposedly, honesty at the gaming tables was enforced by a network of dwarves and midgets (!) who would gaze down at patrons from baskets hung on the walls near ceiling-level.\par
\par
\tab Do I gamble in real life? Christ, no. I dabble at blackjack, and that's quite literally it. I have a poker face like a hyaena snorting laughing gas. And while I do enjoy rolling dice, I usually do so to see if my 10th-level half-elf rogue manages to save versus poison. Games of chance are a fascinating fictional device, but I won't pretend to be anything more than a pure nerdy-nerd theorist where they're concerned.      \cf0\par
\par
 \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc\b\f2\fs28 Reminiscence: The Capa of Vel Virazzo\fs24\par
\pard\ri720\b0\f4\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 1\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Locke Lamora had arrived in Vel Virazzo nearly two years earlier, wanting to die, and Jean Tannen had been inclined to let him have his wish.\par
\par
\tab Vel Virazzo is a deep-water port about a hundred miles south-east of Tal Verrar, carved out of the high rocky cliffs that dominate the mainland coast on the Sea of Brass. A city of eight or nine thousand souls, it has long been a sullen tributary of the Verrari, ruled by a governor appointed directly by the Archon. \par
\par
\tab A line of narrow Elderglass spires rises two hundred feet out of the water just offshore, one more Eldren artefact of inscrutable function on a coast thick with abandoned wonders. The glass pylons have fifteen-foot platforms atop them and are now used as lighthouses, manned by petty convicts. Boats bring and leave them to climb up the knotted rope ladders that hang down the pylons. That accomplished, they winch up their provisions and settle in for a few weeks of exile, tending red alchemical lamps the size of small huts. Not all of them come back down right in the head, or live to come back down at all.\par
\par
\tab Two years before that fateful game of Carousel Hazard, a heavy galleon swept in toward Vel Virazzo under the red glow of those offshore lights. The hands atop the galleon\rquote s yardarms waved, half in pity and half in jest, at the lonely figures atop the pylons. The sun had been swallowed by thick clouds on the western horizon and a soft, dying light rippled across the water beneath the first stars of evening. \par
\par
\tab A warm, wet breeze was blowing from shore to sea, and little threads of mist appeared to be leaking out of the grey rocks to either side of the old port town. The galleon\rquote s yellowed canvas topsails were close-reefed as she prepared to lay-to about half a mile offshore. A little harbourmaster\rquote s skiff scudded out to meet the galleon, green and white lanterns bobbing in its bow to the rhythm of the eight heaving oarsmen.\par
\par
\tab\lquote What vessel?\rquote  The harbourmaster stood up beside her bow lanterns and shouted through a speaking trumpet from thirty yards away.\par
\par
\tab\lquote\i\f5 Golden Gain\i0\f4 ; Tal Verrar,\rquote  came the return shout from the galleon\rquote s waist. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Do you wish to put in?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No! Passengers only, coming off by boat.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The lower stern cabin of the \i\f5 Golden Gain\i0\f4  smelled strongly of sweat and illness. Jean Tannen was newly returned from the upper deck and had lost some of his tolerance for the odour, which lent further edge to his bad mood. He flung a patched blue tunic at Locke and folded his arms.\par
\par
\tab\lquote For fuck\rquote s sake,\rquote  he said, \lquote we\rquote re here. We\rquote re getting off this bloody ship and back onto good, solid stone. Put the bloody tunic on; they\rquote re lowering a boat.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke shook the tunic out with his right hand and frowned. He was sitting on the edge of a bunk, dressed only in his breeches, and was thinner and dirtier than Jean had ever seen him. His ribs stood out beneath his pale skin like the hull timbers of an unfinished ship. His hair was dark with grease, long and unkempt on every side, and a fine thistle of beard fringed his face. \par
\par
\tab His upper left arm was crisscrossed with the glistening red lines of barely sealed wounds; there was a scabbed puncture on his left forearm, and beneath that a dirty cloth brace was wound around his wrist. His left hand was a mess of fading bruises. A discoloured bandage partially covered an ugly-looking injury on his left shoulder, a scant few inches above his heart. Their three weeks at sea had done much to reduce the swelling of Locke\rquote s cheeks, lips and broken nose, but he still looked as though he\rquote d tried to kiss a kicking mule. Repeatedly. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Can I get a hand, then?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No, you can do it for yourself. You should\rquote ve been exercising this past week, getting ready. I can\rquote t always be here to hover about like your fairy fucking nursemaid.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, let me shove a gods-damn rapier through your shoulder and wiggle it for you, and then let\rquote s see how keen you are to exercise.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I \i\f5 took\i0\f4  my cuts, you sobbing piss-wallow, and I did exercise \rquote em.\rquote  Jean lifted his own tunic: above the substantially reduced curve of his once-prodigious belly was the fresh, livid scar of a long slash across his ribs. \lquote I don\rquote t care how much it hurts; you have to move around or they heal tight like a caulk-seal and then you\rquote re really in the shit.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote So you keep telling me.\rquote  Locke threw the tunic down on the deck beside his bare feet. \lquote But unless that garment animates itself, or you do the honours, it seems I must go to the boat like this.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Sun\rquote s setting. Summer or not, it\rquote ll be cool out there. But if you want to be an idiot, I suppose you do go like that.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re a son of a bitch, Jean.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If you were healthy, I\rquote d re-break your nose for that, you self-pitying little\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen?\rquote  A crew-woman\rquote s muffled voice came through the door, followed by a loud knock. \lquote Captain\rquote s compliments, and the boat is ready.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Thank you,\rquote  yelled Jean. He ran a hand through his hair and sighed. \lquote Why did I bother saving your life, again? I could\rquote ve brought the Grey King\rquote s corpse with me instead. Would\rquote ve been better fucking company.\rquote    \par
\par
\tab\lquote Please,\rquote  said Locke forcefully, gesturing with his good arm. \lquote We can meet in the middle. I\rquote ll pull with my good arm and you handle the bad side. Get me off this ship and I\rquote ll get to exercising.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Can\rquote t come soon enough,\rquote  said Jean, and after another moment\rquote s hesitation he bent down for the tunic. \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 2\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Jean\rquote s tolerance rose for a few days with their release from the wet, smelly, heaving world of the galleon; even for paying customers, long-distance sea transit still had more in common with a prison sentence than a vacation. \par
\par
\tab With their handful of silver volani (converted from Camorri Ssolons at an extortionate rate by the first mate of the \i\f5 Golden Gain\i0\f4 , who\rquote d argued that it was still preferable to the numismatic mugging they\rquote d receive from the town\rquote s moneychangers), he and Locke secured a third-floor room at the Silver Lantern, a sagging old inn on the waterfront.\par
\par
\tab Jean immediately set about procuring a source of income. If Camorr\rquote s underworld had been a deep lake, Vel Virazzo\rquote s was a stagnant pond. He had little trouble sussing out the major dockside gangs and the relationships between them. There was little organization in Vel Virazzo, and no boss-of-bosses to screw things up. A few nights of drinking in all the right dives and he knew exactly who to approach.\par
\par
\tab They called themselves the Brass Coves, and they skulked about in an abandoned tannery down on the city\rquote s eastern docks, where the sea lapped against the pilings of rotting piers that had seen no legitimate use in twenty years. By night, they were an active crew of sneak-thieves, muggers and coat-charmers. By day, they slept, diced and drank away most of their profits. Jean kicked in their door (though it hung loosely in its frame, and wasn\rquote t locked) at the second hour of the afternoon on a bright, sunny day.\par
\par
\tab There were an even dozen of them in the old tannery, young men between the ages of fifteen and twenty-odd. Standard membership for a local-trouble sort of gang. Those that weren\rquote t awake were slapped back to consciousness by their associates as Jean strolled into the centre of the tannery floor. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Good afternoon!\rquote  He gave a slight bow, from the neck, then spread his arms wide. \lquote Who\rquote s the biggest, meanest motherfucker here? Who\rquote s the best bruiser in the Brass Coves?\rquote\par
\par
\tab After a few seconds of silence and surprised stares, a relatively stocky young man with a crooked nose and a shaved head leapt down onto the dusty floor from an open staircase. The boy walked up to Jean and smirked.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re lookin\rquote  at him.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean nodded, smiled, then whipped both of his arms around so that his cupped hands cracked against both of the boy\rquote s ears. He staggered, and Jean took a firm hold of his head, lacing his fingers tightly behind the rear arch of his skull. He pulled the tough\rquote s head sharply downward and fed him a knee \endash  once, twice, three times. As the boy\rquote s face met Jean\rquote s kneecap for the last time, Jean let go, and the tough sprawled backwards on the tannery floor, senseless as a side of cold, salted meat. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Wrong,\rquote  said Jean, not even breathing heavily. \lquote\i\f5 I\rquote m\i0\f4  the meanest motherfucker here. \i\f5 I\rquote m\i0\f4  the biggest bruiser in the Brass Coves.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You ain\rquote t in the Brass Coves, arsehole,\rquote  shouted another boy, who nonetheless had a look of awed disquiet on his face.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Let\rquote s kill this piece of shit!\rquote\par
\par
\tab A third boy, wearing a tattered four-cornered cap and a set of handmade necklaces threaded with small bones, darted toward Jean with a stiletto drawn back in his right hand. When the thrust came, Jean stepped back, caught the boy by the wrist and yanked him forward into a backfist from his other hand. While the boy spat blood and tried to blink tears of pain from his eyes, Jean kicked him in the groin, then swept his legs out from under him. The boy\rquote s stiletto appeared in Jean\rquote s left hand as if by magic, and he twirled it slowly. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Surely you boys can do simple sums,\rquote  he said. \lquote One plus one equals \i\f5 don\rquote t fuck with me\i0\f4 .\rquote\par
\par
\tab The boy who\rquote d charged at him with the knife sobbed, then threw up. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Let\rquote s talk taxes.\rquote  Jean walked around the periphery of the tannery floor, kicking over a few empty wine bottles; there were dozens of them scattered around. \lquote Looks like you boys pull in enough coin to eat and drink; that\rquote s good. I\rquote ll have forty per cent of it, cold metal. I don\rquote t want goods. You\rquote ll pay your taxes every other day, starting today. Cough up your purses and turn out your pockets.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Fuck that!\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean stalked toward the boy who\rquote d spoken; the youth was standing against the far wall of the tannery with his arms crossed. \lquote Don\rquote t like it? Hit me, then.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab\lquote Uh . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You don\rquote t think that\rquote s fair? You mug people for a living, right? Make a fist, son.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Uh . . .\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab Jean grabbed him, spun him around, took hold of him by his neck and by the top of his breeches and rammed him head-first into the thick wood of the tannery\rquote s outer wall several times. The boy hit the ground with a thud when Jean let go; he was unable to fight back when Jean patted down his tunic and came up with a small leather purse. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Added penalty,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote for damaging the wall of my tannery with your head.\rquote  He emptied the purse into his own, then tossed it back down beside the boy. \lquote Now, all of you get down here and line up. Line up! Four-tenths isn\rquote t much. Be honest: you can guess what I\rquote ll do if I find out that you\rquote re not.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Who the hell \i\f5 are\i0\f4  you?\rquote  The first boy to approach Jean with coins in his hand offered up the question along with the money.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You can call me\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab As Jean began to speak, the boy conjured a dagger in his other hand, dropped the coins and lunged. The bigger man shoved the boy\rquote s extended arm to the outside, bent nearly in half, and slammed his right shoulder into the boy\rquote s stomach. He then lifted the boy effortlessly on his shoulder and dropped him over his back, so that the boy struck the floor of the tannery nearly face-first. He ended up writhing in pain beside the last Cove who\rquote d pulled a blade on Jean.  \par
\par
 \tab\lquote Callas. Tavrin Callas, actually.\rquote  Jean smiled. \lquote That was a good thought, coming at me while I was talking. That at least I can respect.\rquote  Jean shuffled backwards several paces to block the door. \lquote But it seems to me that the subtle philosophical concept I\rquote m attempting to descant upon may be going over your heads. Do I really have to kick all your arses before you take the hint?\rquote\par
\par
\tab There was a chorus of mutterings and a healthy number of boys shook their heads, however reluctantly. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Good.\rquote  The extortion went smoothly after that; Jean wound up with a satisfying collection of coins, surely enough to keep him and Locke ensconced at their inn for another week. \lquote I\rquote m off, then. Rest easy and work well tonight. I\rquote ll be back tomorrow, at the second hour of the afternoon. We can start talking about how things are going to be now that I\rquote m the new boss of the Brass Coves.\rquote\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 3\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Naturally, they all armed themselves, and at the second hour of the afternoon the next day they were waiting in ambush for Jean.\par
\par
\tab To their surprise, he strolled into the old tannery with a Vel Virazzo constable at his side. The woman was tall and muscular, dressed in a plum-purple coat reinforced with a lining of fine iron chain; she had brass epaulettes on her shoulders and long brown hair pulled back in a tight swordswoman\rquote s tail with brass rings. Four more constables took up position just outside the door; they wore similar coats, but also carried long, lacquered sticks and heavy wooden shields slung over their backs.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hello, lads,\rquote  said Jean. All around the room, daggers, stilettos, broken bottles and sticks were disappearing from sight. \lquote I\rquote m sure some of you recognize Prefect Levasto and her men.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Boys,\rquote  said the prefect offhandedly, hooking her thumbs into her leather sword-belt. Alone of all the constables, she carried a cutlass in a plain black sheath. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Prefect Levasto,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote is a wise woman, and she leads wise men. They happen to enjoy money, which I am now providing as a consideration for the hardship and tedium of their duties. If anything should chance to happen to me, why, they would lose a new source of the very thing they enjoy.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It would be heartbreaking,\rquote  said the prefect.\par
\par
\tab\lquote And it would have consequences,\rquote  said Jean.\tab\par
\par
\tab The prefect set one of her boots on an empty wine bottle and applied steady pressure until it shattered beneath her heel. \lquote Heartbreaking,\rquote  she repeated with a sigh. \par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m sure you\rquote re all bright lads,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote I\rquote m sure you\rquote ve all enjoyed the prefect\rquote s visit.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Shouldn\rquote t like to have to repeat it,\rquote  said Levasto with a grin. She turned slowly and ambled back out through the doorway. The sound of her squad marching away soon receded into the distance.\par
\par
\tab The Brass Coves looked down at Jean, glumly. The four boys closest to the door, with their hands behind their backs, were the ones wearing livid black and green bruises from before. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Why the fuck are you doing this to us?\rquote  grumbled one of them.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m not your enemy, boys. Believe it or not, I think you\rquote ll really come to appreciate what I can do for you. Now shut up and listen. First,\rquote  said Jean, raising his voice so everyone could hear, \lquote I\rquote d like to say that it\rquote s rather sad, how long you\rquote ve been around without getting the city watch on the take. They were so \i\f5 eager\i0\f4  for it when I made the offer. Like sad, neglected little puppies.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean was wearing a long black vest over a stained white tunic. He reached up beneath his back, under the vest, with his right hand. \par
\par
\tab\lquote But,\rquote  he continued, \lquote at least the fact that your first thought was to kill me shows some spirit. Let\rquote s see those toys again. Come on, show \rquote em off.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Sheepishly, the boys drew out their weapons once again, and Jean inspected them with a sweep of his head. \lquote Mmmm. Gimp steel, broken bottles, little sticks, a hammer . . . boys, the trouble with this set-up is that you think those are threats. They\rquote re not. They\rquote re insults.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab He started moving while the last few words were still coming out of his mouth; his left hand slid up beneath his vest beside his right. Both of his arms came out and up in a blur, and then he grunted as he let fly with both of his hatchets, overhand.\par
\par
\tab There was a pair of half-full wineskins hanging on pegs on the far wall; each one exploded in a gout of cheap Verrari red that spattered several boys nearby. Jean\rquote s hatchets had impaled the wineskins dead-centre, and stuck in the wood behind them without quivering. \par
\par
\tab\lquote\i\f5 That\i0\f4  was a threat,\rquote  he said, cracking his knuckles. \lquote And that\rquote s why \i\f5 you\i0\f4  now work for \i\f5 me\i0\f4 . Anyone else really want to dispute that at this point?\rquote    \par
\par
\tab The boys standing closest to the wineskins edged backwards as Jean stepped over and wrenched his hatchets out of the wall. \lquote Didn\rquote t think so. But don\rquote t take it amiss,\rquote  Jean continued. \lquote It works in your favour, too. A boss needs to protect what\rquote s his if he\rquote s going to stay the boss. If anyone other than \i\f5 me\i0\f4  tries to shove you around, let me know. I\rquote ll pay them a visit. That\rquote s my job.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The next day, the Brass Coves grudgingly lined up to pay their taxes. The last boy in line, as he dropped his copper coins into Jean\rquote s hands, muttered: \lquote You said you\rquote d help if someone else gave us the business. Some of the Coves got kicked around this morning by the Black Sleeves, from over on the north side.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean nodded sagely and slipped his takings into his coat pocket. \par
\par
\tab The next night, after making inquiries, he sauntered into a north-side dive called the Sign of the Brimming Cup. The only thing the tavern was brimming with was thugs, a good seven or eight of them, all with dirty black cloths tied around the arms of their jackets and tunics. They were the only customers, and they looked up with suspicion as he closed the door behind him and carefully slid home the wooden bolt.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Good evening!\rquote  He smiled and cracked his knuckles. \lquote I\rquote m curious. Who\rquote s the biggest, meanest motherfucker in the Black Sleeves?\rquote\par
\par
\tab The day after that, he collected his taxes from the Brass Coves with the bruised knuckles of his right hand wrapped in a poultice. For the first time, most of the boys paid enthusiastically. A few even started to call him \lquote Tav\rquote .\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 4\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab But Locke did not exercise his wounds, as he\rquote d promised. \par
\par
\tab Locke\rquote s thin supply of coins was parcelled out for wine; his poison of choice was a particularly cheap local slop. More purple than red, with a bouquet like turpentine, its scent soon saturated the room he shared with Jean at the Silver Lantern. Locke took it constantly \lquote for the pain\rquote ; Jean remarked one evening that his pain must be increasing as the days went on, for the empty skins and bottles were multiplying proportionally. They quarrelled \endash  or more accurately rekindled their ongoing quarrel \endash  and Jean stomped off into the night, for neither the first nor the last time. \par
\par
\tab Those first few days in Vel Virazzo, Locke would totter down the steps to the common room some nights, where he would play a few desultory hands of cards with some of the locals. He conned them mirthlessly with whatever fast-fingers tricks he could manage with just one good hand. Soon enough they began to shun his games and his bad attitude, and he retreated back to the third floor, to drink alone in silence. Food and cleanliness remained afterthoughts. Jean tried to get a dog-leech in to examine Locke\rquote s wounds, but Locke drove the man out with a string of invective that made Jean (whose speech could be colourful enough to strike fire from damp tinder) blush. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Of your friend I can find no trace,\rquote  said the man. \lquote He seems to have been eaten by one of the thin, hairless apes from the Okanti isles; all it does is screech at me. What became of the last leech to take a look at him?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We left him in Talisham,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote I\rquote m afraid my friend\rquote s attitude moved him to bring an early end to his own sea voyage.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, I might have done the same. I waive my fee, in profound sympathy. Keep your silver \endash  you shall need it for wine. Or poison.\rquote\par
\par
\tab More and more, Jean found himself spending time with the Brass Coves for no better reason than to avoid Locke. A week passed, then another. \lquote Tavrin Callas\rquote  was becoming a known and solidly respected figure in Vel Virazzo\rquote s crooked fraternity. Jean\rquote s arguments with Locke became more circular, more frustrating, more pointless. Jean instinctively recognized the downward arc of terminal self-pity, but had never dreamed that he\rquote d have to drag Locke, of all people, out of it. He avoided the problem by training the Coves. \par
\par
\tab At first, he passed on just a few hints \endash  how to use simple hand signals around strangers, how to set distractions before picking pockets, how to tell real gems from paste and avoid stealing the latter. Inevitably, he began to receive respectful entreaties to \lquote show them a thing or two\rquote  of the tricks he\rquote d used to pound four Coves into the ground. First in line with these requests were the four who\rquote d been pounded. \par
\par
\tab A week after that, the alchemy was fully under way. Half a dozen boys were rolling around in the dust of the tannery floor while Jean coached them on all the essentials of infighting \endash  leverage, initiative, situational awareness. He began to demonstrate the tricks, both merciful and cruel, that had kept him alive over half a lifetime spent making his points with his fists and hatchets.\par
\par
\tab Under Jean\rquote s influence, the boys began to take more of an interest in the state of their old tannery. He explicitly encouraged them to start viewing it as a headquarters, which demanded certain comforts. Alchemical lanterns appeared, hanging from the rafters. Fresh oilpaper was nailed up over the broken windows, and new planks and straw were raised up to the roof to plug holes. The boys stole cushions, cheap tapestries and portable shelves.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Find me a hearthstone,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Steal me a big one, and I\rquote ll teach you poor little bastards how to cook, too. You can\rquote t beat Camorr for chefs; even the thieves are chefs back there. I\rquote ve had years of training.\rquote\par
\par
\tab He stared around at the increasingly well-maintained tannery, at the increasingly eager band of young thieves living in it, and he spoke wistfully to himself: \lquote We all did.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab He\rquote d tried to interest Locke in the project of the Brass Coves, but had been rebuffed. That night he tried again, explaining about their ever-increasing nightly take, their headquarters, the tips and training he was giving them. Locke stared at him for a long time, sitting on the bed with a chipped glass half-full of purple wine in his hands.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well,\rquote  he said at last. \lquote Well, I can see you\rquote ve found your replacements, haven\rquote t you?\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab Jean was too startled to say anything. \par
\pard\fi720\ri720\par
Locke drained his glass and continued, his voice flat and humourless, \lquote That was certainly quick. Quicker than I expected. A new gang, a new burrow. Not a glass one, but you can probably fix that if you look around long enough. So here you are, playing Father Chains, lighting a fire under that kettle of happy horse-shit all over again.\rquote  \par
\pard\ri720\tab\par
\tab Jean exploded across the room and slapped the empty glass out of Locke\rquote s hand; it shattered against the wall and showered half the room with glittering fragments, but Locke didn\rquote t even blink. Instead, he leaned back against his sweat-stained pillows and sighed.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Got any twins yet? How about a new Sabetha? A new \i\f5 me\i0\f4 ?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote To \i\f5 hell\i0\f4  with you!\rquote  Jean clenched his fists until he could feel the warm, slick blood seeping out beneath his nails. \lquote To hell with you, Locke! I didn\rquote t save your gods-damned life so you could sulk in this gods-damned hovel and pretend you\rquote re the man who invented grief. You\rquote re not that gods-damned special!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Why \i\f5 did\i0\f4  you save me then, Saint Jean?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of all the stupid fucking questions\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote WHY?\rquote  Locke heaved himself up off the bed and shook his fists at Jean; the effect would have been comical, but all the murder in the world was in his eyes. \lquote I told you to \i\f5 leave\i0\f4  me! Am I supposed to be grateful for this? This bloody room?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I didn\rquote t make this room your whole world, Locke. You did.\rquote\par
\par
 \tab\lquote\i\f5 This\i0\f4  is what I was rescued for? Three weeks sick at sea, and now Vel Virazzo, arsehole of Tal Verrar? It\rquote s the joke of the gods, and I\rquote m the punch line. Dying with the Grey King would have been better. I told you to fucking leave me there!\rquote\par
\par
\tab And then, \lquote And I miss them,\rquote  he said, his voice nearly a whisper. \lquote Gods, I miss them. It\rquote s my fault they\rquote re dead. I can\rquote t . . . I can\rquote t stand it\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Don\rquote t you dare,\rquote  growled Jean. He shoved Locke in the chest, forcefully. Locke fell backwards across his bed and hit the wall hard enough to rattle the window shutters. \lquote Don\rquote t you dare use them as an excuse for what you\rquote re doing to yourself! Don\rquote t you fucking \i\f5 dare\i0\f4 .\rquote  \par
\par
\tab Without another word, Jean spun on his heels, walked out of the room and slammed the door behind him. \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 5\par
\pard\ri720\par
\tab Locke sank down against the bed, put his face in his hands and listened to the creak of Jean\rquote s footsteps recede from the hall outside.  \par
\par
\tab To his surprise, that creak returned a few minutes later, growing steadily louder. Jean threw the door open, face grim, and marched directly over to Locke with a tall wooden bucket of water in his hands. Without warning, he threw this all over Locke, who gasped in surprise and fell backwards against the wall again. He shook his head like a dog and pushed his sopping hair out of his eyes.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean, are you out of your fucking\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You needed a bath,\rquote  Jean interrupted. \lquote You were covered in self-pity.\rquote\par
\par
\tab He threw the bucket down and moved around the room, plucking up any bottle or wineskin that still contained liquid. He was finished before Locke realized what he was doing; he then swiped Locke\rquote s coin-purse from the room\rquote s little table and tossed a thin leather package down in its place.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hey, Jean, Jean, you can\rquote t . . . that\rquote s mine!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Used to be \ldblquote ours\rdblquote ,\rquote  said Jean coldly. \lquote I liked that better.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab When Locke tried to jump up from the bed again, Jean pushed him back down effortlessly. He then stormed out once more and pulled the door shut behind him. There was a curious clicking noise, and then nothing \endash  not even a creak of floorboards. Jean was waiting right outside the door.\par
\par
\tab Snarling, Locke moved across the room and tried to pull the door open, but it held fast in its frame. He frowned in puzzlement and rattled it a few more times. The bolt was on his side, and it wasn\rquote t shot.\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s a curious fact,\rquote  Jean said through the door, \lquote that the rooms of the Silver Lantern can be locked from the outside with a special key only the innkeeper has. In case he wants to keep an unruly guest at bay while he calls for the watch, you see.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean, open this fucking door!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No. You open it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I can\rquote t! You told me yourself you\rquote ve got the special key!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote The Locke Lamora I used to know would \i\f5 spit\i0\f4  on you,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Priest of the Crooked Warden. \i\f5 Garrista\i0\f4  of the Gentlemen Bastards. Student of Father Chains. Brother to Calo, Galdo and Bug! Tell me, what would \i\f5 Sabetha\i0\f4  think of you?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote You . . . you bastard! Open this door!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Look at yourself, Locke. You\rquote re a fucking disgrace. Open it yourself.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You. Have. The. \i\f5 Godsdamnedmotherfuckingkey.\i0\f4\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You know how to charm a lock, right? I left you some picks on the table. You want your wine back, you work the bloody door yourself.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You son of a \i\f5 bitch\i0\f4 !\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote My mother was a saint,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote The sweetest jewel Camorr ever produced. The city didn\rquote t deserve her. I can wait out here all night, you know. It\rquote ll be easy. I\rquote ve got all your wine and all \i\f5 your\i0\f4  money.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gaaaaaaaaaaah!\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke snatched the little leather wallet off the table; he wiggled the fingers of his good right hand and regarded his left hand more dubiously; the broken wrist was mending, but it ached constantly. \par
\par
\tab He bent over the lock mechanism by the door, scowled and went to work. He was surprised at how quickly the muscles of his back began to protest his uncomfortable posture. He stopped long enough to pull the room\rquote s chair over so he could sit on it while he worked. \par
\par
\tab As his picks rattled around inside the lock and he bit his tongue in concentration, he heard the heavy creak of movement outside the door and a series of loud thumps.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Still here, Locke,\rquote  came Jean\rquote s voice, now cheerful. \lquote Gods, you\rquote re taking your sweet time. Oh, I\rquote m sorry \endash  have you even started yet?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote When I get this door open, you\rquote re dead, Jean!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote When you get that door open? I look forward to many long years of life, then.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke redoubled his concentration, falling back into the rhythm he\rquote d learned over so many painstaking hours as a boy \endash  moving the picks slightly, feeling for sensations. That damn creaking and thumping had started up on the other side of the door again! What was Jean playing at now? Locke closed his eyes and tried to block the sound out of his mind . . . tried to let his world narrow down to the message of the picks against his fingers . . .\par
\par
\tab The mechanism clicked open. Locke stumbled up from his chair, jubilant and furious, and yanked the door open.\par
\par
\tab Jean had vanished, and the narrow corridor outside the room was packed wall to wall with wooden crates and barrels \endash  an impassable barrier about three feet from Locke\rquote s face.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean, what the \i\f5 hell\i0\f4  is this?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m sorry, Locke.\rquote  Jean was obviously standing directly behind his makeshift wall. \lquote I borrowed a few things from the keeper\rquote s larder and got a few of the boys you cheated at cards last week to help me carry it all up here.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke gave the wall a good shove, but it didn\rquote t budge; Jean was probably putting his full weight against it. There was a faint chorus of laughter from somewhere on the other side, probably down in the common room. Locke ground his teeth together and beat the flat of his good hand against a barrel.\par
\par
\tab\lquote What the hell\rquote s the matter with you, Jean? You\rquote re making a gods-damned scene!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Not really. Last week I told the keeper you were a Camorri don travelling incognito, trying to recover from a bout of madness. Just now I set an awful lot of silver on his bar. You do remember silver, don\rquote t you? How we used to steal it from people, back when you were pleasant company?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote This has ceased to amuse me, Jean! Give me back my gods-damned wine!\rquote    \par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods-damned it is. And I\rquote m afraid that if you want it, you\rquote re going to have to climb out through your window.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke took a step back and stared at the makeshift wall, dumbfounded. \lquote Jean, you can\rquote t be serious.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ve never been more serious.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Go to hell. Go to hell! I can\rquote t climb out of a bloody window. My wrist\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You fought the Grey King with one arm nearly cut off. You climbed out of a window five hundred feet up in Raven\rquote s Reach. And here you are, three storeys off the ground, helpless as a kitten in a grease barrel. Crybaby. Pissant.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You are deliberately trying to provoke me!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No shit,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Sharp as a cudgel, you are.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke stomped back into the room, fuming. He stared at the shuttered window, bit his tongue and stormed back to Jean\rquote s wall.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Please let me out,\rquote  he said, as evenly as he could manage. \lquote Your point is driven home.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote d drive it home with a blackened-steel pike if I had one,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Why are you talking to me when you should be climbing out of the window?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods \i\f5 damn\i0\f4  you!\rquote\par
\par
\tab Back to the room; Locke paced furiously. He swung his arms about tentatively; the cuts on his left arm ached and the deep wound on his shoulder still twinged cruelly. His battered left wrist felt as though it \i\f5 might\i0\f4  almost serve. Pain or no pain . . . he curled his left-hand fingers into a fist, stared down at them and then looked up at the window with narrowed eyes. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Fuck it,\rquote  he said. \lquote I\rquote ll show you a thing or three, you son of a bloody silk merchant . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke tore his bedding apart, knotting sheet-ends to blankets, inviting twinges from his injuries. The pain only served to drive him on faster. He tightened his last knot, threw open the shutters and tossed his makeshift rope out through the window. He tied the end in his hands to his bed frame. It wasn\rquote t a terribly sturdy piece of furniture, but then he didn\rquote t weigh all that much.\par
\par
\tab Out through the window he went.\par
\par
\tab Vel Virazzo was an old, low city; Locke\rquote s impressions as he swung there, three storeys above the faintly misted street, came in flashes. Flat-topped, sagging buildings of stone and plaster . . . reefed sails on black masts in the harbour . . . white moonlight gleaming on dark water . . . red lights burning atop glass pylons, receding in a line out toward the horizon. Locke shut his eyes, clung to his sheets and bit his tongue to avoid throwing up.\par
\par
\tab It seemed easiest simply to slide downward; he did so in fits and starts, letting his palms grow warm against the sheets and blankets before stopping. Down ten feet . . . Twenty . . . He balanced precariously on the top sill of the inn\rquote s common-room window and gasped in a few deep breaths before continuing. Warm as the night was, he was getting chilly from the soaking he\rquote d received. \par
\par
\tab The last strip of the last sheet ended about six feet off the ground; Locke slid down as far as he could, then let himself drop. His heels slapped against the cobblestones, and he found Jean Tannen already waiting for him, with a cheap grey cloak in his hands. Before Locke could move, Jean flung the cloak around his shoulders.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You son of a bitch,\rquote  cried Locke, pulling the cloak around himself with both hands. \lquote You snake-souled, dirty-minded \i\f5 son of a bitch\i0\f4 ! I hope a shark tries to suck your cock!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Why, Master Lamora, look at you,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Charming a lock, climbing out of a window. Almost as though you used to be a thief.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I was pulling off hanging offences when you were still teeth-on-tits in your mother\rquote s arms!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And I\rquote ve been pulling off hanging offences while you\rquote ve been sulking in your room, drinking away your skills.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m the best thief in Vel Virazzo,\rquote  growled Locke, \lquote drunk or sober, awake or asleep, and you damn well know it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I might have believed that once,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote But that was a man I knew in Camorr, and he hasn\rquote t been with me for some time.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods \i\f5 damn\i0\f4  your ugly face,\rquote  yelled Locke as he stepped up to Jean and punched him in the stomach. More surprised than hurt, Jean gave him a solid shove. Locke flew backwards, cloak whirling as he tried to keep his balance \endash  until he collided with a man who\rquote d been coming down the street.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mind your fucking step!\rquote  The stranger, a middle-aged man in a long orange coat and the prim clothes of a clerk or a lawscribe, wrestled for a few seconds with Locke, who clutched at him for support. \par
\par
\tab\lquote A thousand pardons,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote A thousand pardons, sir. My friend and I were merely having a discussion; the fault is all mine.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I dare say it is,\rquote  said the stranger, at last succeeding in prying Locke from his coat lapels and thrusting him away. \lquote You have breath like a wine-cask! Bloody Camorri.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke watched until the man was a good twenty or thirty yards down the street, then whirled back toward Jean, dangling a little black leather purse in the air before him. It jingled with a healthy supply of heavy coins. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Ha! What do you say to that, hmmm?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote I say it was bloody child\rquote s play. Doesn\rquote t mean a gods-damned thing.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Child\rquote s play? Die screaming, Jean, that was\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re mangy,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote You\rquote re dirtier than a Shades\rquote  Hill orphan. You\rquote ve lost weight, though where from is a great mystery. You haven\rquote t been exercising your wounds or letting anyone tend to them for you. You\rquote ve been hiding in a room, letting your condition slip away, and you\rquote ve been drunk for two straight weeks. You\rquote re not what you were and it\rquote s your own damn fault.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote So.\rquote  Locke scowled at Jean, slipped the purse into a tunic pocket and straightened the cloak on his shoulders. \lquote You require a demonstration. Fine. Get back inside and take down your silly wall, and wait for me in the room. I\rquote ll be back in a few hours.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab But Locke had already thrown up the hood of his cloak, turned and begun to stride down the street, into the warm Vel Virazzo night. \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 6\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Jean cleared the barrier from the third-floor hallway, left a few more coins (from Locke\rquote s purse) with the bemused innkeeper and bustled about the room, allowing some of the smell of drunken enclosure to evaporate out via the open window. Upon reflection, he went down to the bar and came back with a glass decanter of water. \par
\par
\tab Jean was pacing, worriedly, when Locke burst back in about four hours later, just past the third hour of the morning. He set a huge wicker basket down on the table, threw off his cloak, grabbed the bucket Jean had used to douse him and noisily threw up in it.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote My apologies,\rquote  he muttered when he had finished. He was flushed and breathing heavily, as wet as he\rquote d been when he\rquote d left, but now with warm sweat. \lquote The wine has not entirely left my head . . . and my wind has all but deserted me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean passed him the decanter and Locke slurped from it as shamelessly as a horse at a trough. Jean helped him into the chair. Locke said nothing for a few seconds, then suddenly seemed to notice Jean\rquote s hand on his shoulder, and he recoiled. \lquote Here . . . we are . . . then,\rquote  he gasped. \lquote See what happens when you provoke me? I think we\rquote re going to have to flee the city.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What the\emdash  What have you done?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke tore the lid from his basket; it was the sort commonly used by merchants to haul small loads of goods to and from a street market. A prodigious assortment of odds and ends lay inside, and Locke began to list them off as he pulled them out and showed them to Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote What\rquote s this? Why, it\rquote s a pile of purses . . . one-two-three-\i\f5 four\i0\f4  of them, all plucked from sober gentlemen in open streets. Here\rquote s a knife, two bottles of wine, a pewter ale mug \endash  dented a bit, but still good metal. A brooch, three gold pins, two earrings \endash  \i\f5 earrings\i0\f4 , Master Tannen, plucked from \i\f5 ears\i0\f4 , and I\rquote d like to see you try that. Here\rquote s a little bolt of nice silk, a box of sweetmeats, two loaves of bread \endash  the crusty kind with all the spices baked in that you like so much. And now, specially for the edification of a certain pessimistic, peace-breaking son of a bitch who shall remain nameless . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke held up a glittering necklace, a braided band of gold and silver supporting a heavy gold pendant, studded with sapphires in the stylized pattern of a floral blossom. The little phalanx of stones flashed like blue fire even by the light of the room\rquote s single soft lantern.\par
\par
\tab\lquote That\rquote s a sweet piece,\rquote  said Jean, briefly forgetting to be aggravated. \lquote You didn\rquote t snatch that off a street.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No,\rquote  said Locke, before taking another deep draught of the warm water in the decanter. \lquote I got it from the neck of the governor\rquote s mistress.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You can\rquote t be serious.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote In the governor\rquote s manor.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of all the\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote In the governor\rquote s bed.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Damned lunatic!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote With the governor sleeping next to her.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The night quiet was broken by the high, distant trill of a whistle, the traditional swarming-noise of city watches everywhere. Several other whistles joined in a few moments later.\par
\par
\tab\lquote It is possible,\rquote  said Locke with a sheepish grin, \lquote that I have been slightly too bold.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean sat down on the bed and ran both of his hands through his hair. \lquote Locke, I\rquote ve spent the past few weeks making a name for Tavrin Callas as the biggest, brightest thing to come along in this city\rquote s sad little pack of Right People for ages! When the watch starts asking questions, someone\rquote s going to point me out . . . and someone\rquote s going to mention all the time I spend here, and the time I spend with you . . . and if we try to fence a piece of metal like that in a place this small\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote As I said, I think we\rquote re going to have to flee the city.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Flee the city?\rquote  Jean jumped up and pointed an accusatory finger at Locke. \lquote You\rquote ve screwed up weeks of work! I\rquote ve been training the Coves \endash  signals, tricks, teasing, fighting, the whole bit! I was going to . . . I was going to start teaching them how to cook!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oooh, this is serious. I take it the marriage proposal wouldn\rquote t have been far behind?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Dammit, this \i\f5 is\i0\f4  serious! I\rquote ve been \i\f5 building\i0\f4  something! I\rquote ve been out working while you\rquote ve been sobbing and sulking and pissing your time away in here.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re the one who lit a fire under me because he wanted to see me dance. Now I\rquote ve danced, and I believe I\rquote ve made my point. Will you be apologizing?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Apologizing? You\rquote re the one who\rquote s been an insufferable little shit! Letting you live is apology enough! All my work\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Capa of Vel Virazzo? Is that how you saw yourself, Jean? Another Barsavi?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Another \i\f5 anything\i0\f4 ,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote There\rquote s worse things to be \endash  Capa Lamora, for example, Lord of One Smelly Room. I won\rquote t be a bloody knockabout, Locke. I am an honest working thief and I\rquote ll do what I have to, to keep a table set and a roof over our heads!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote So let\rquote s go somewhere and get back to something really lucrative,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote You want honest crooked work? Fine. Let\rquote s go and hook a big fish just like we used to in Camorr. You wanted to see me steal, let\rquote s go out and \i\f5 steal\i0\f4 !\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote But Tavrin Callas\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Has died before,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Seeker into Aza Guilla\rquote s mysteries, right? Let him seek again.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Dammit.\rquote  Jean stepped over to the window and took a peek out; whistling was still coming from several directions. \lquote It might take a few days to arrange a berth on a ship, and we won\rquote t get out by land with what you\rquote ve stolen \endash  they\rquote ll be checking everyone at the gates, probably for a week or two to come.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jean,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote now you\rquote re disappointing \i\f5 me\i0\f4 . Gates? Ships? Please. This is \i\f5 us\i0\f4  we\rquote re talking about. We could smuggle a live cow past every constable in this city, at high noon. Without clothes.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Locke? Locke \i\f5 Lamora\i0\f4 ?\rquote  Jean rubbed his eyes with exaggerated motions. \lquote Why, where have you been all these weeks? Here I thought I\rquote d been rooming with a miserable self-absorbed arsehole who\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Right,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Fine. Ha. Yeah, maybe I deserved that kick in the face. But I\rquote m serious, getting us out is as easy as a bit of cooking. Get down to the innkeeper. Wake him up and throw some more silver at him \endash  there\rquote s plenty in those purses. I\rquote m a mad Camorri don, right? Tell him I\rquote ve got a mad whim. Get me some more dirty cloth, some apples, a hearthstone and a black iron pot full of water.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Apples?\rquote  Jean scratched his beard. \lquote Apples? You mean . . . the apple-mash trick?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Just so,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Get me that stuff, and I\rquote ll get boiling, and we can be out of here by dawn.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Huh.\rquote  Jean opened the door, slipped out into the hall and turned once before leaving for good. \lquote I take some of it back,\rquote  he said. \lquote You might still be a lying, cheating, low-down, greedy, grasping, conniving, pocket-picking son of a bitch.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Thanks,\rquote  said Locke.\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 7\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab A drizzle was pattering softly around them as they walked out through Vel Virazzo\rquote s north gate a few hours later. Sunrise was a watery line of yellow on the eastern horizon, under scudding charcoal clouds. Purple-jacketed soldiers stared down in revulsion from atop the city\rquote s fifteen-foot wall; the heavy wooden door of the small sally-port slammed shut behind them as though it too was glad to be rid of them. \par
\tab\par
\tab Locke and Jean were both dressed in tattered cloaks and wrapped in bandage-like fragments from a dozen torn-up sheets and pieces of clothing. A thin coating of boiled apple mash, still warm, soaked through some of the \lquote bandages\rquote  on their arms and chests, and was plastered liberally over their faces. Sloshing around wearing a layer of the stuff under cloth was disgusting, but there was no better disguise to be had in all the world.  \par
\par
\tab Slipskin was a painful, incurable disease, and those afflicted with it were even less tolerated than lepers. Had Locke and Jean approached from outside Vel Virazzo\rquote s walls, they never would have been let in. As it was, the guards had no interest in how they\rquote d entered the city in the first place; they\rquote d nearly stumbled over themselves in their haste to see them gone. \par
\par
\tab The outer city was an unhappy-looking place: a few blocks of crumbling one- and two-storey buildings, decorated here and there with the makeshift windmill-towers favoured in those parts for driving bellows over forges and ovens. Smoke sketched a few curling grey lines in the wet air overhead, and thunder rumbled in the distance. Beyond the city, where the cobbles of the old Therin Throne Road became a wet dirt track, Locke could see scrubland, interrupted here and there by rocky clefts and piles of debris.\par
\par
\tab Their coin \endash  and all of their other small goods worth transporting \endash  were tucked into a little bag tied under Jean\rquote s clothes, where no guardsman would dare search, not if a superior stood behind him with a drawn sword and ordered it on pain of death.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods,\rquote  Locke muttered as they trudged along beside the road, \lquote I\rquote m getting too tired to think straight. I really have let myself slouch out of condition.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, you\rquote re going to get some exercise these next few days, whether you like it or not. How\rquote re the wounds?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote They itch,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote This damn mush does them little good, I suspect. Still, it\rquote s not as bad as it was. A few hours of motion seems to have had some benefit.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Wise in the ways of all such things is Jean Tannen,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Wiser by far than most; especially most named Lamora.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Shut your fat, ugly, inarguably wiser face,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Mmmm. Look at those idiots scamper away from us.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Would you do otherwise if you saw a pair of real slipskinners by the side of the road?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Eh. I suppose not. Damn these aching feet, too.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Let\rquote s get a mile or two outside town, then find a place to rest. Once we\rquote ve put some leagues under our heels, we can ditch this mush and pose as respectable travellers again. Any idea where you want to strike out for?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I should\rquote ve thought it was obvious,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote These little towns are for pikers. We\rquote re after gold and white iron, not clipped coppers. Let\rquote s make for Tal Verrar. Something\rquote s bound to present itself there.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmm. Tal Verrar. Well, it is close.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Camorri have a long and glorious history of kicking the piss out of our poor Verrari cousins, so I say, on to Tal Verrar,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote And glory.\rquote  They walked on a way under the tickling mist of the morning drizzle. \lquote And baths.\rquote\par
\par
\cf1\tab Author's Notes: I was up late one night in early 2007, revising this chapter, when a strange, soft voice seemed to float out of my computer screen: "We need to talk about this."\par
\par
\tab "What?"\par
\par
\tab "We need to talk about your unholy linguistic conglomerations."\par
\par
\tab "My what? Who or what the hell \i\f5 are\i0\f4  you?"\par
\par
\tab "I am the Spirit of the Spellchecker," said the soft voice. "I am the electronic guardian whose tasteful red lines on your screen protect you from the indignity of misspelling your own name."\par
\par
\tab "Whoah," I said, "This can't be--"\par
\par
\tab "Which you have done," said the voice. "On numerous occasions."\par
\par
\tab "I must be dreaming," I said.\par
\par
\tab "Not at all. We need to talk about '\i\f5 Godsdamnedmotherfuckingkey.\i0\f4\rquote  "\par
\par
\tab "Uh, what is there to talk about?"\par
\par
\tab "You've slammed two profane adjectives into one tiny, helpless little noun as though you fired them out of a gun. A gun pointed not merely at your innocent noun, but at myself."\par
\par
\tab "Hold on," I said, "that's kind of the point of the joke, that Locke speaks the words so fast they all run together and effectively become one phrase--"\par
\par
\tab "Now you're trying to blame a fictional character," said the voice. "How inevitable and sad."\par
\par
\tab "Look, it's not that I don't appreciate your diligence, but come on, aren't you laying it on a bit thick?"\par
\par
\tab "If you persist in the use of your increasingly convoluted multipurpose compound obscenities," said the voice, "I may no longer be able to parse them. You may lose my services. A bit of spellchecking magic... may go out of the world forever. I beg you, return to sanity before it's too late."\par
\par
\tab "I can't do it, mystery voice." I shook my head adamantly. "Threaten me all you like. I am what I am, and I write what I write. And if I want to use thirteen hyphens and twenty-five obscenities per paragraph, that's just the way the word-count crumbles." \par
\par
\tab "I shall weep for thee," whispered the voice, and then it was gone. \par
\par
\tab But '\i\f5 Godsdamnedmotherfuckingkey' \i0\f4 stayed. I am what I am, it's no use trying to change that or apologize for it, whether or not it turns the formerly benevolent ghost of the spellchecker against me. Unholy linguistic conglomerations are just one of the things you get when you read a Stocc Lynhc book.  \cf0\par
\page\par
\pard\ri720\qc\b\f2\fs28 CHAPTER TWO\par
REQUIN\fs24\par
\par
\par
\b0\f4 1\par
\b\f2\par
\pard\ri720\b0\f4\tab Though Locke saw that Jean remained as unsettled by their experience in the Night Market as he was, they spoke no more of the matter. There was a job to be done. \par
\par
\tab The close of the working day for honest men and women in Tal Verrar was just the beginning of theirs. It had been strange at first, getting used to the rhythm of a city where the sun simply fell beneath the horizon like a quiescent murder victim each night, without the glow of Falselight to mark its passing. But Tal Verrar had been built to different tastes or needs than Camorr, and its Elderglass simply mirrored the sky, raising no light of its own. \par
\par
\tab Their suite at the Villa Candessa was high-ceilinged and opulent; at five silver Volani a night, nothing less was to be expected. Their fourth-floor window overlooked a cobbled courtyard in which carriages, studded with lanterns and outriding mercenary guards, came and went with echoing clatters.   \par
\par
\tab\lquote Bondsmagi,\rquote  muttered Jean as he tied on his neck-cloths before a looking glass. \lquote I\rquote ll never hire one of the bastards to do so much as heat my tea, not if I live to be richer than the Duke of Camorr.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Now there\rquote s a thought,\rquote  said Locke, who was already dressed and sipping coffee. A full day of sleep had done wonders for his head. \lquote If we were richer than the Duke of Camorr, we could hire a whole pack of them and give them instructions to go lose themselves on a desolate fucking island somewhere.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmm. I don\rquote t think the gods made any islands desolate enough for my tastes.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean finished tying his neck-cloths with one hand and reached for his breakfast with the other. One of the odder services the Villa Candessa provided for its long-term guests was its \lquote likeness cakes\rquote  \endash  little frosted simulacra fashioned after the guests by the inn\rquote s Camorr-trained pastry sculptor. On a silver tray beside the looking-glass, a little sweetbread Locke (with raisin eyes and almond-butter blond hair) sat beside a rounder Jean with dark chocolate hair and beard. The baked Jean\rquote s legs were already missing.  \par
\par
\tab A few moments later, Jean was brushing the last buttery crumbs from the front of his coat. \lquote Alas, poor Locke and Jean.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote They died of consumption,\rquote  said Locke. \par
\par
\tab\lquote I do wish I could be there to see it when you talk to Requin and Selendri, you know.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hmmm. Can I trust you to still be in Tal Verrar by the time I finish?\rquote  He tired to leaven the question with a smile, only partially succeeding.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You know I won\rquote t go anywhere,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote I\rquote m still not sure it\rquote s wise. But you know I won\rquote t.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I do. I\rquote m sorry.\rquote  He finished his coffee and set the cup down. \lquote And my chat with Requin isn\rquote t going to be all that terribly interesting.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Nonsense. I heard a smirk in your voice. Other people smirk when their work is finished; you grin like an idiot just before yours really begins.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Smirking? I\rquote m as slack-cheeked as a corpse. I\rquote m just looking forward to being done with it. Tedious business. I anticipate a dull meeting.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote Dull meeting, my arse. Not after you walk straight up to the lady with the brass bloody hand and say, \ldblquote Excuse me, madam, but . . . \rdblquote\rquote\par
\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 2\par
\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab\lquote I have been cheating,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Steadily. At every single game I\rquote ve played since my partner and I first came to the Sinspire, two years ago.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Receiving a piercing stare from Selendri was a curious thing; her left eye was nothing but a dark hollow, half-covered with a translucent awning that had once been a lid. Her single good eye did the work of two, and damned if it wasn\rquote t unnerving.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Are you deaf, madam? Every single one. Cheating. All the way up and down this precious Sinspire, cheating floor after floor, taking your other guests for a very merry ride.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote I wonder,\rquote  she said in her slow, witchy whisper, \lquote if you truly understand what it means to say that to me, Master Kosta. Are you drunk?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m as sober as a suckling infant.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Is this something you\rquote ve been put up to?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I am completely serious,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote And it\rquote s your master I would speak to about my motivations. Privately.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The sixth floor of the Sinspire was quiet. Locke and Selendri were alone, with four of Requin\rquote s uniformed attendants waiting about twenty feet away. It was still too early in the evening for this level\rquote s rarefied crowd to have finished their slow, carousing migration up through the livelier levels. \par
\par
\tab At the heart of the sixth floor was a tall sculpture within a cylinder of transparent Elderglass. Though the glass could not be worked by human arts, there were literally millions of cast-off fragments and shaped pieces scattered around the world, some of which could be conveniently fitted to human use. There were Elderglass scavenging guilds in several cities, capable of filling special needs in exchange for exorbitant fees. \par
\par
\tab Within the cylinder was something Locke could only describe as a \i\f5 copperfall\i0\f4  \endash  it was a sculpture of a rocky waterfall, taller than a man, in which the rocks were shaped entirely from silver volani coins, and the \lquote water\rquote  was a constant heavy stream of copper centira, thousands upon thousands of them. The clatter within the soundproof glass enclosure must have been tremendous, but for those on the outside the show proceeded in absolute silence. Some mechanism in the floor was catching the stream of coins and re-circulating it up the back of the silver \lquote rocks\rquote . It was eccentric and hypnotic . . . Locke had never before known anyone to decorate a room with a literal pile of money.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Master? You presume that I have one.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You know I mean Requin.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote He would be the first to correct your presumption. Violently.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A private audience would give us a chance to clear up several misunderstandings, then.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh, Requin will certainly speak to you \endash\i\f5  very\i0\f4  privately.\rquote  Selendri snapped the fingers of her right hand twice and the four attendants converged on Locke. Selendri pointed up; two of them took firm hold of his arms, and together they began to lead him up the stairs. Selendri followed a few steps behind. \par
\par
\tab The seventh floor was dominated by another sculpture within an even wider Elderglass enclosure. This one resembled a circle of volcanic islands, again built from silver volani, floating in a sea of solid-gold solari. Each of the silver peaks had a stream of gold coins bubbling from its top, to fall back down into the churning, gleaming \lquote ocean\rquote . Requin\rquote s guards maintained a pace too vigorous for Locke to catch many more details of the sculpture or the room; they passed another pair of uniformed attendants beside the stairwell and continued up. \par
\par
\tab At the heart of the eighth floor was a third spectacle within glass, the largest yet. Locke blinked several times and suppressed an appreciative chuckle.\par
\par
\tab It was a stylized sculpture of Tal Verrar, silver islands nestled in a sea of gold coins. Standing over the model city, bestriding it like a god, was a life-sized marble sculpture of a man Locke recognized immediately. The statue, like the man, had prominent curving cheekbones that lent the narrow face a sense of mirth \endash  plus a round protruding chin, wide eyes and large ears that seemed to have been jammed into the head at right angles. Requin, whose features bore a fair resemblance to a marionette put together in haste by a somewhat irate puppeteer.          \par
\par
\tab The statue\rquote s hands were held outward at the waist, spread forward, and from the flaring stone cuffs around them two solid streams of gold coins were continually gushing onto the city below. \par
\par
\tab Locke, staring, only avoided tripping over his own feet because the attendants holding him chose that moment to tighten their grip. Atop the eighth-floor stairs was a pair of lacquered wooden doors. Selendri strode past Locke and the attendants. To the left of the door was a small niche in the wall; Selendri slid her brass hand into it, let it settle into some sort of mechanism and then gave it a half-turn to the left. There was a clatter of clockwork devices within the wall and the doors cracked open.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Search him,\rquote  she said as she vanished through the doors without turning around. \par
\par
\tab Locke was rapidly stripped of his coat; he was then poked, prodded, sifted and patted down more thoroughly than he\rquote d been during his last visit to a brothel. His sleeve-stilettos (a perfectly ordinary thing for a man of consequence to carry) were confiscated, his purse was shaken out, his shoes were slipped off and one attendant even ran his hands through Locke\rquote s hair. When this process was finished, Locke (shoeless, coatless and somewhat dishevelled) was given a less-than-gentle shove toward the doors through which Selendri had vanished.\par
\par
\tab Beyond them was a dark space not much larger than a wardrobe closet. A winding black iron staircase, wide enough for one person, rose up from the floor toward a square of soft yellow light. Locke padded up the stairs and emerged into Requin\rquote s office.\par
\par
\tab This place took up the whole of the ninth floor of the Sinspire; an area against the far wall, curtained off with silk drapes, probably served as a bedroom. There was a balcony door on the right-hand wall, covered by a sliding mesh screen. Locke could see a wide, darkened sweep of Tal Verrar through it, so he presumed it looked east. \par
\par
\tab Every other wall of the office, as he\rquote d heard, was liberally decorated with oil paintings \endash  nearly twenty of them around the visible periphery of the room, in elaborate frames of gilded wood. Masterworks of the late Therin Throne years, when nearly every noble at the Emperor\rquote s court had kept a painter or sculptor on the leash of patronage, showing them off like pets. Locke hadn\rquote t the training to tell one from another by sight, but rumour had it that there were two Morestras and a Ventathis on Requin\rquote s walls. Those two artists \endash  along with all their sketches, books of theory and apprentices \endash  had died centuries before, in the firestorm that had consumed the imperial city of Therim Pel.\par
\par
\tab Selendri stood beside a wide wooden desk the colour of a fine coffee, cluttered with books and papers and miniature clockwork devices. A chair was pushed out behind it, and Locke could see the remnants of a dinner \endash  some sort of fish on a white-iron plate, paired with a half-empty bottle of pale golden wine. \par
\par
\tab Selendri touched her flesh hand to her brass simulacrum, and there was a clicking noise. The hand folded apart like the petals of a gleaming flower. The fingers locked into place along the wrist and revealed a pair of blackened-steel blades, six inches long, previously concealed at the heart of the hand. Selendri waved these like a claw and gestured for Locke to stand before the desk, facing it.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Master Kosta.\rquote  The voice came from somewhere behind him, within the silk-curtained enclosure. \lquote What a pleasure! Selendri tells me you\rquote ve expressed an interest in getting \i\f5 killed\i0\f4 .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hardly, sir. All I told your assistant was that I had been cheating steadily, along with my partner, at the games we\rquote ve been playing in your Sinspire. For nearly the last two years.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Every game,\rquote  said Selendri. \lquote You said every single game.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Ah, well,\rquote  said Locke with a shrug, \lquote it just sounded more dramatic that way. It was more like \i\f5 nearly\i0\f4  every game.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote This man is a clown,\rquote  whispered Selendri. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh, no,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Well, maybe occasionally. But not now.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke heard footsteps moving toward his back across the room\rquote s hardwood floor. \lquote You\rquote re here on a bet,\rquote  said Requin, much closer.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Not in the way that you mean, no.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin stepped around Locke and stood before him, hands behind his back, peering at Locke very intently. The man was a virtual twin of his statue on the floor below; perhaps a few pounds heavier, with the bristling curls of steel-grey hair atop his head receding more sharply. His narrow frock coat was crushed black velvet, and his hands were covered with brown leather gloves. He wore optics, and Locke was surprised to see that the glimmer he had taken for reflected light the night before was actually imbued within the glass. They glowed a translucent orange, giving a demonic cast to the wide eyes behind them. Some fresh, expensive alchemy Locke had never heard of, no doubt. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Did you drink anything unusual tonight, Master Kosta? An unfamiliar wine, perhaps?\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote Unless the water of Tal Verrar itself intoxicates, I\rquote m as dry as baked sand.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab Requin moved behind his desk, picked up a small silver fork, speared a white morsel of fish and pointed at Locke with it. \par
\par
\tab\lquote So, if I\rquote m to believe you, you\rquote ve been successfully cheating here for two years, and aside from the sheer impossibility of that claim, now you just want to give yourself up to me. Case of conscience?\rquote    \par
\par
\tab\lquote Not even remotely.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote An earnest wish for an elaborate suicide?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I aim to leave this office alive.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh, you wouldn\rquote t necessarily be dead until you hit the cobblestones nine storeys below.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Perhaps I can convince you I\rquote m worth more to you intact.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin chewed his fish before speaking again. \lquote Just how have you been cheating, Master Kosta?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Fast-fingers work, mostly.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Really? I can tell a card-sharp\rquote s fingers at a glance. Let\rquote s see that right hand of yours.\rquote  Requin held out his gloved left hand and Locke hesitantly put his own forward, as though they might shake.\par
\par
\tab Requin snatched Locke\rquote s right hand above the wrist and slammed it down atop his desk \endash  but rather than the sharp rap Locke expected, his hand tipped aside some sort of disguised panel and slid into an aperture just beneath the surface of the desk. There was a loud \i\f5 clack\i0\f4  of clockwork and a cold pressure pinched his wrist. Locke jerked back, but the desk had swallowed his hand like the unyielding maw of a beast. Selendri\rquote s twin steel claws turned casually toward him, and he froze.\par
\par
\tab\lquote There now. Hands, hands, hands. They get their owners into such trouble, Master Kosta. Selendri and I are two who would know.\rquote  Requin turned to the wall behind his desk and slid back a lacquered wood panel, revealing a long, shallow shelf set into the wall.\par
\par
\tab Within were dozens of sealed glass jars, each holding something dark and withered . . . dead spiders? No, Locke corrected himself \endash  human hands. Severed, dried and stored as trophies, with rings still gleaming on many of their curled and desiccated fingers. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Before we proceed to the inevitable, that\rquote s what we usually do,\rquote  Requin said in a lightly conversational tone. \lquote Right hand, ta-ta. I\rquote ve got it down to a pretty process. Used to have carpets in here, but the damn blood made for \i\f5 such\i0\f4  a mess.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Very prudent of you.\rquote  Locke felt a single bead of sweat start its slow slide down his forehead. \lquote I am as awed and chastised as you no doubt hoped. Might I have my hand back?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote In its original condition? I doubt it. But answer some questions and we\rquote ll see. Now, fast-fingers work, you say. But forgive me \endash  my attendants are extremely adept at spotting card-sharps.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m sure your attendants mean well.\rquote  Locke knelt down before the desk, the most comfortable position possible, and smiled. \lquote But I can finger-dance a live cat into a standard deck of fifty-six and slip it back out at leisure. Other players might complain about the noise, but they\rquote d never spot the source.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Set a live cat on my desk, then.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It was, ah, a colourful figure of speech. Live cats, unfortunately, aren\rquote t in fashion as evening accessories for gentlemen of Tal Verrar this season.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Pity. But hardly a surprise. I\rquote ve had quite a few dead men kneeling where you are now, offering colourful figures of speech and little else.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab Locke sighed. \lquote Your boys removed my coat and my shoes, and if they\rquote d patted me down any more thoroughly they would have been fingering my liver. But what\rquote s this?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab He shook out his left sleeve and held up his left hand to show that a deck of cards had somehow fallen into it.\par
\par
\tab Selendri shoved her blades toward Locke\rquote s throat, but Requin waved her back with a smile on his face. \lquote He can hardly kill me with a pack of cards, darling. Not bad, Master Kosta.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Now,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote let\rquote s see.\rquote  He held his arm straight out to the side, with the deck held firmly upright between his thumb and all four fingers. A twist of the wrist, a flick of his thumb, and the deck was cut. He began to flex and splay his fingers, steadily increasing his tempo until they moved like a spider taking fencing lessons. Cut and shuffle, cut and shuffle \endash  he sliced the deck apart and slid it back together no fewer than a dozen times. Then, with one smooth flourish, he slapped it down on the desk and spread it in a long arc, displacing several of Requin\rquote s knick-knacks.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Pick one,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Any one you like. Look at it, but don\rquote t show it to me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin did as instructed. While he peeked at the card he\rquote d drawn, Locke gathered the rest of the deck with a reverse slide across Requin\rquote s desktop; he shuffled and cut once more, then split the deck and left half on top of the desk. \lquote Go ahead and place your chosen card atop that half of the deck. Remember it, now.\rquote\par
\par
\tab When Requin returned the card, Locke slapped the other half of the deck down on top of it. Taking the full deck in his left hand, he did his one-handed cut-and-shuffle another five times. Then he slid the top card from the deck \endash  the four of Chalices \endash  onto Requin\rquote s desk and smiled. \lquote This, Master of the Sinspire, is your card.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No,\rquote  said Requin with a smirk.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Shit.\rquote  Locke flicked out the next card from the top, the Sigil of the Sun. \lquote Aha \endash  I knew it was around there somewhere.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No,\rquote  said Requin.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Damn me,\rquote  said Locke, and he rapidly went through the next half-dozen from the top of the deck. \lquote Eight of Spires? Three of Spires? Three of Chalices? Sigil of the Twelve Gods? Five of Sabres? Shit. Mistress of Flowers?\rquote  Requin shook his head for each one.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Huh. Excuse me.\rquote  Locke set the deck of cards down on Requin\rquote s desk, then fumbled at the clasp of his right sleeve with his left hand. After a few seconds, he slid the sleeve back above his elbow and re-set the clasp. Suddenly, there was another deck of cards in his left hand. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Let\rquote s see . . . Seven of Sabres? Three of Spires? No, we already did that one . . . Two of Chalices? Six of Chalices? Master of Sabres? Three of Flowers? Damn, damn. That deck wasn\rquote t so good after all.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke set the second deck down beside the first on Requin\rquote s desk, appeared to scratch an itch near the slender black sash above his breeches and then held up a third deck of cards. He grinned at Requin and raised his eyebrows.\par
\par
\tab\lquote This trick might work even better if I could have the use of my right hand.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Why, when you appear to be doing so well without it?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab Locke sighed and flicked the top card from the new deck onto the growing pile atop the desk. \lquote Nine of Chalices! Look familiar?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin laughed and shook his head. Locke set the third deck down beside the ones already on Requin\rquote s desk, stood up and conjured another from somewhere in the vicinity of his breeches. \par
\par
\tab\lquote But your attendants would of course know,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote if I were loaded down with four concealed decks of cards, they being so \i\f5 adept\i0\f4  at spotting something like that on a man with no jacket or shoes \'c9 wait, four? I may have miscounted . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab He produced a fifth deck from somewhere within his silk tunic, which joined the little tower of cards perched ever more precariously on the edge of the desk. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Surely I couldn\rquote t have hidden \i\f5 five\i0\f4  decks of cards from your guards, Master Requin. Five would be quite ridiculous. Yet there they are \endash  though I\rquote m afraid that\rquote s as good as it gets. To conjure more, I would have to begin producing them from somewhere disagreeable. And, I\rquote m sorry to say, I don\rquote t seem to have the card you took. But wait . . . I do know where it might be found . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab He reached across Requin\rquote s desk, nudged the wine bottle at its base and appeared to pluck a face-down card from underneath it. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Your card,\rquote  he said, twirling it in the fingers of his left hand. \lquote Ten of Sabres.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well,\rquote  laughed Requin, showing a wide arc of yellowing teeth below the fire-orange circles of his optics. \lquote Very fine, very fine. And one-handed, too. But even if I grant that you could perform such tricks, continuously, in front of my attendants and my other guests . . . you and Master de Ferra have spent a great deal of time at games that are more rigorously controlled than the open card tables.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I can tell you how we beat those, too. Simply free me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Why relinquish a clear advantage?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Then trade it to gain another. Free my right hand,\rquote  said Locke, mustering every last bit of passionate sincerity he could pour into his words, \lquote and I shall tell you \i\f5 exactly\i0\f4  why you must never again trust the security of your Sinspire as it stands.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin stared down at him, laced his gloved fingers together and finally nodded to Selendri. She withdrew her blades \endash  though she kept them pointed at Locke \endash  and pressed a switch behind the desk. Locke was suddenly free to stumble back to his feet, rubbing his right wrist. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Most kind,\rquote  said Locke with a breeziness that was pure conjuring. \lquote Now, yes, we have played at quite a bit more than the open tables. But which games have we scrupulously avoided? Reds-and-Blacks. Count to Twenty. Fair Maiden\rquote s Wish. All the games in which a guest plays against the Sinspire, rather than against another guest. Games mathematically contrived to give the house a substantial edge.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Hard to make a profit otherwise, Master Kosta.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes. And useless for the purposes of a cheat like myself; I need flesh and blood to fool. I don\rquote t care how much clockwork and how many attendants you throw in. In a game between guests, larceny \i\f5 always\i0\f4  finds a way, sure as water pushes through a ship\rquote s seams.\rquote     \par
\par
\tab\lquote More bold speech,\rquote  said Requin. \lquote I admire glibness in the doomed, Master Kosta. But you and I both know that there is no way to cheat at, say, Carousel Hazard, barring four-way complicity between the participants, which would render the game absolutely pointless.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote True. There is no way to cheat the carousel or the cards, at least not here in your \rquote Spire. But when one cannot cheat the game, one must cheat the players. Do you know what \i\f5 bela paranella\i0\f4  is?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A soporific. Expensive alchemy.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes. Colourless, tasteless and doubly effective when taken with liquor. Jerome and I were dusting our fingers with it before we handled our cards during each hand last night. Madam Corvaleur has a well-known habit of eating and licking her fingers while playing. Sooner or later, she was bound to take in enough of the drug to pass out.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well!\rquote  Requin looked genuinely taken aback. \lquote Selendri, do you know anything about this?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I can vouch for Corvaleur\rquote s habits, at least,\rquote  she whispered. \lquote It appears to be her preferred method of irritating her opponents.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote That it did,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote It was quite a pleasure to see her do herself in.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ll grant your story is remotely plausible,\rquote  said Requin. \lquote I had been . . . curious about Izmila\rquote s strange incapacity.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Indeed. The woman\rquote s built like an Elderglass boathouse. Jerome and I had more empty vials than her side did; what she\rquote d drunk wouldn\rquote t have got her eyelashes alone drunk, if not for the powder.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Perhaps. But let\rquote s discuss other games. What of Blind Alliances?\rquote\par
\par
\tab A game of Blind Alliances was played at a circular table with tall, specially designed barriers before each player\rquote s hands so that everyone but the person directly across from them (their partner) could see at least some of their cards. Each silent participant set his or her right foot atop the left foot of the person on their right, all around the table, so no player could tap signals to a partner below the table. Partners therefore had to play by instinct and desperate inference, cut off from one another\rquote s sight, voice and touch.\par
\par
\tab\lquote A child\rquote s stratagem. Jerome and I had special boots constructed, with iron-shod toes beneath the leather. We could slide our feet carefully out of the backs of them, and the iron would continue to provide the sensation of a full boot to the person beside us. We could tap entire books to one another with the code we\rquote ve got. Have you ever known anyone to dominate that game as thoroughly as we did?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You can\rquote t be serious.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I can show you the boots.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well. You did have an extraordinary run of luck . . . but what about billiards? You scored a rather famous victory against Lord Landreval. How could you have finessed that? My house provides all the balls, the sticks and the handling.\rquote\par
\par
 \tab\lquote Yes, so naturally those three things couldn\rquote t be fiddled. I paid Lord Landreval\rquote s consulting physiker ten solari for insight into his medical complaints. Turns out he\rquote s allergic to lemons. Jerome and I rubbed our necks, cheeks and hands with sliced lemons each night before we played him, and used other oils to mostly cover up the scent. Half an hour in our presence and he\rquote d be so puffed up he could barely see. I\rquote m not sure he ever realized what the problem was.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You say you won a thousand solari with a few slices of \i\f5 lemon\i0\f4 ? Nonsense.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course you\rquote re right. I asked politely if he\rquote d lend me a thousand solari, and he offered to let us publicly humiliate him at his favourite game out of the kindness of his heart.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hmmmph.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote How often did Landreval lose before he met Jerome and me? Once in fifty games?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Lemons. I\rquote ll be damned.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes. When you can\rquote t cheat the game, you\rquote d best find a means to cheat the player. Given information and preparation, there\rquote s not a player in your \rquote Spire Jerome and I can\rquote t dance along like a finger-puppet. Hell, someone with my talents who knew enough about me could probably string me right along, too.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s a good story, Master Kosta.\rquote  Requin reached across his desk and took a sip of his wine. \lquote I suppose I can charitably believe at least some of what you claim. I suspected that you and your friend were no more merchant-speculators than I am, but at my tower you may claim to be a duke or a three-headed dragon provided you have solid credit. You certainly did before you stepped into my office this evening. Which brings us only to the most important question of all \endash  why the hell are you telling me this?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I needed your attention.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You already had it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I needed more than that. I needed you to understand my skills and my inclinations.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And now you have that as well, inasmuch as I accept your story. What \i\f5 exactly\i0\f4  do you think that gets you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A chance that what I\rquote m going to say next will actually sink in.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m not really here to take your guests for a few thousand solari here and a few thousand solari there, Requin. It\rquote s been fun, but it\rquote s secondary to my actual goal.\rquote  Locke spread his hands and smiled apologetically. \lquote I\rquote ve been hired to break into your vault, just as soon as I find a way to haul out everything in it from right under your nose.\rquote      \par
\pard\ri720\qc\par
\par
3\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Requin blinked. \lquote Impossible!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Inevitable.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote This isn\rquote t legerdemain or lemons we\rquote re talking about now, Master Kosta. Explain yourself.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote My feet are beginning to hurt,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote And my throat is somewhat dry.\rquote  \tab  \par
\par
\tab Requin stared at him, then shrugged. \lquote Selendri. A chair for Master Kosta. And a glass.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab Frowning, Selendri turned and took a finely wrought dark wood chair with a thin leather cushion from its place at the wall. She placed it behind Locke, and he settled into it with a smile on his face. She then bustled about behind him for a few moments and returned with a crystal goblet, which she passed to Requin. He picked up the wine bottle and poured a generous stream of red liquid into the goblet. \i\f5 Red\i0\f4  liquid? Locke blinked \endash  and then relaxed. \i\f5 Kameleona\i0\f4 , the shifting wine, of course. One of the hundreds of Tal Verrar\rquote s famous alchemical vintages. Requin passed him the goblet, then sat down atop his desk with his arms folded. \par
\par
\tab\lquote To your health,\rquote  said Requin. \lquote It needs all the assistance it can get.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke took a long sip of the warm wine and allowed himself a few seconds of contemplation. He marvelled at the way the taste of apricots transmuted to the sharper flavour of slightly tart apple in mid-swallow. That sip had been worth twenty Volani, if his knowledge of the liquor market was still accurate. He gave a genuinely appreciative nod to Requin, who waved a hand nonchalantly. \par
\par
\tab\lquote It cannot have escaped your attention, Master Kosta, that my vault is the most secure in Tal Verrar \endash  the single most redundantly protected space in the entire city, in fact, not excepting the private chambers of the Archon himself.\rquote  Requin tugged at the skintight leather of his right glove with the fingers of his left hand. \lquote Or that it is encased within a structure of pristine Elderglass, and accessible only through several layers of metallurgical and clockwork artifice that are, if I may be permitted to stroke my own breechclout, peerless. Or that half the \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4  councillors regard it so highly that they entrust much of their personal fortunes to it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote I congratulate you on a very flattering clientele. But your vault doors are guarded by gears, and gears are shaped by men. What one man locks another will sooner or later unlock.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I say again, impossible.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And I correct you again. \i\f5 Difficult.\i0\f4  \ldblquote Difficult\rdblquote  and \ldblquote impossible\rdblquote  are cousins often mistaken for one another, with very little in common.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote You have more chance of giving birth to a live hippopotamus,\rquote  said Requin, \lquote than the best thief alive has of making it past the cordon drawn around my vault. But this is silly \endash  we could sit here all night contrasting cock-lengths. I say mine is five feet long, you say yours is six and shoots fire upon command. Let\rquote s hurry back to significant conversation. You admit that cheating the mechanisms of my games is out of the question. My vault is the most secure of all mechanisms; am \i\f5 I\i0\f4  therefore the flesh and blood you were presuming to fool?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s possible this conversation represents me giving up that hope.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What does cheating my guests have to do with plotting entry into my vault?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Originally,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote we gamed merely to blend in and cover our observance of your operations. Time passed and we made no progress. The cheating was a lark to make the games more interesting.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote My house bores you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jerome and I are thieves. We\rquote ve been sharping cards and lifting goods east and west, from here to Camorr and back again, for years. Spinning carousels with the well-heeled is only amusing for so long, and we weren\rquote t getting far with our job, so we had to stay amused somehow.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Job. Yes, you said you were hired to come here. Elaborate.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote My partner and I were sent here as the point men of something very elaborate. \i\f5 Someone\i0\f4  out there wants your vault emptied. Not merely penetrated, but pillaged. Plucked and left behind like an empty honeycomb.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Someone?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Someone. I haven\rquote t the faintest notion who; Jerome and I are dealt with through fronts. All of our efforts to penetrate them have been in vain. Our employer is as anonymous to us now as he was two years ago.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Do you frequently work for anonymous employers, Master Kosta?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Only the ones that pay me large piles of good, cold metal. And I can assure you \endash  this one has been paying us very well.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin sat down behind his desk, removed his optics and rubbed his eyes with his gloved hands. \lquote What\rquote s this new game, Master Kosta? Why favour me with all of this?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I tire of our employer. I tire of Jerome\rquote s company. I find Tal Verrar much to my taste, and I wish to arrange a new situation for myself.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You wish to turn your coat?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If you must put it that way, yes.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What do you suggest I have to gain from this?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote First, a means to work against my current employer. Jerome and I aren\rquote t the only agents set against you. Our job is the vault, and nothing else. All the information we gather on your operations is being passed to someone else. They\rquote re waiting for us to come up with a means to crack your money-box, and then they\rquote ve got further plans for you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Go on.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote The other benefit would be mutual. I want a job. I\rquote m tired of running from city to city chasing after work. I want to settle in Tal Verrar, find a home, maybe a woman. After I help you deal with my current employer, I want to work for you, here.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote As an entertainer, perhaps?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You need a floor boss, Requin. Tell me truly, are you as complacent now about your security as you were before I came up your stairs? I know how to cheat every single game that \i\f5 can\i0\f4  be cheated here, and if I weren\rquote t sharper than your attendants I\rquote d already be dead. Who better to keep your guests playing fairly?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Your request is . . . logical. Your willingness to shrug off your employer isn\rquote t. Don\rquote t you fear their retribution?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Not if I can help you put us both beyond it. Identification is the problem. Once identified, any man or woman in the world can be dealt with. You have every gang in Tal Verrar under your thumb, and you have the ear of the \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4 . Surely you could make the arrangements if we could come up with name.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And your partner, Master de Ferra?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We\rquote ve worked well together,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote but we quarrelled, not long ago, over an intensely personal matter. He believes his insult is forgiven; I assure you it is anything but. I want to be quits with him when our current employer is dealt with. I want him to know before he dies that I\rquote ve had the best of him. If possible, I\rquote d like to kill him myself. That and the job are my only requests.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmm. What do you think of all this, Selendri?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Some mysteries are better off with their throats slit,\rquote  she whispered.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You might fear that I\rquote m trying to displace you,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote I assure you, when I said floor boss I meant floor boss. I don\rquote t want your job.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And you could never \i\f5 have\i0\f4  it, Master Kosta, even if you did want it.\rquote  Requin ran his fingers down Selendri\rquote s right forearm and squeezed her undamaged hand. \lquote I admire your boldness only to a point.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Forgive me, both of you. I had no intention of presuming too much. Selendri, for what it\rquote s worth, I agree with you. In your position, getting rid of me might seem like wisdom. Mysteries \i\f5 are\i0\f4  dangerous to people in our profession. I am no longer pleased with the mystery of my employment. I want a more predictable life. What I ask and what I offer are straightforward.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And in return,\rquote  said Requin, \lquote I receive possible insight into an alleged threat against a vault I have enhanced by my own design to be impenetrable.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A few minutes ago, you expressed the same confidence concerning your attendants and their ability to spot card-sharps.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Have you penetrated my vault security as thoroughly as you say you\rquote ve danced around my attendants, Master Kosta? Have you penetrated it at all?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote All I need is time,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Give it to me and a way will make itself plain, sooner or later. I\rquote m not giving up because it\rquote s too difficult; I\rquote m giving up because it pleases me. But don\rquote t just take my word on my sincerity; look into the activities of Jerome and myself. Make inquiries about everything we\rquote ve been doing in your city for the past two years. We have made some progress that might open your eyes.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I shall,\rquote  said Requin. \lquote And in the meantime, what am I to do with you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Nothing extraordinary,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote Make your inquiries. Keep your eyes on Jerome and myself. Continue to let us play at your \rquote Spire \endash  I promise to play more fairly, at least for the coming few days. Allow me to think on my plans and gather whatever information I can about my anonymous employer.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Let you walk out of here, unscathed? Why not hold you somewhere secure while I exercise my curiosity about your background?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If you take me seriously enough to consider any part of my offer,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote then you must take the possible threat of my employer seriously as well. Any tip-off to them that I\rquote ve been compromised, and Jerome and I might be cast loose. So much for your opportunity.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote So much for your usefulness, you mean. I am to take a great deal on faith, from a man offering to betray and kill his business partner.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You hold my purse as surely as your desk held my hand. All the coin I have in Tal Verrar, I keep here within your Sinspire. You may look for my name at any counting house in the city, and you will not find it. I give you that leverage over me, willingly.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote A man with a grudge, a genuine grudge, might piss on all the white iron in the world for one chance at his real target, Master Kosta. I have been that target too many times to forget this.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I am \i\f5 not\i0\f4  crass,\rquote  said Locke, taking back one of his decks of cards from Requin\rquote s desktop. He shuffled it a few times without looking at it. \lquote Jerome insulted me without good cause. Pay me well and treat me well, and I will never give you any reason for displeasure.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke whisked the top card off his deck, flipped it and set it down face-up beside the remnants of Requin\rquote s dinner. It was the Master of Spires.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I deliberately choose to throw in with you, if you\rquote ll have me. Place a bet, Master Requin. The odds are favourable.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin pulled his optics out of his coat pocket and slipped them back on. He brooded over the card; nothing was said by anyone for some time. Locke sipped quietly from his glass of wine, which had turned pale blue and now tasted of juniper. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Why,\rquote  said Requin at last, \lquote all other considerations aside, should I allow you to violate the cardinal rule of my \rquote Spire on your own initiative and suffer nothing in exchange?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Only because I imagine that cheaters are ordinarily discovered by your attendants while other guests are watching,\rquote  said Locke, attempting to sound as sincere and contrite as possible. \lquote Nobody knows about my confession, outside this office. Selendri didn\rquote t even tell your attendants why they were hauling me up here.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Requin sighed, then drew a gold solari from within his coat and set it down atop Locke\rquote s Master of Spires.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I shall hold fast with a small wager for now,\rquote  said Requin. \lquote Do anything unusual or alarming and you will not survive long enough to reconsider. At the slightest hint that anything you\rquote ve told me has been a lie, I will have molten glass poured down your throat.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Uh . . . that seems fair.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote How much money do you currently have on the ledger here?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Just over three thousand solari.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Two thousand of that is no longer yours. It will remain on the ledger so Master de Ferra doesn\rquote t get suspicious, but I\rquote m going to issue instructions that it is not to be released to you. Consider it a reminder that my rules are not to be broken on anyone\rquote s recognition but my own.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Ouch. I suppose I should be grateful. I mean, I am. Thank you.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote You walk on eggshells with me, Master Kosta. Step delicately.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Then I may go? And I may think of myself as in your service?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You may go. And you may consider yourself on my \i\f5 sufferance\i0\f4 . We will speak again when I know more about your recent past. Selendri will accompany you back down to the first floor. Get out of my sight.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab With an air of faint disappointment, Selendri folded up the brass fingers of her artificial hand until it was whole once again and the blades were hidden. She gestured toward the stairs with that hand, and with the look in her good eye she told him precisely how much patience she had to spare for him if Requin\rquote s should start to wane.  \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 4\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Jean Tannen sat reading in a private booth at the Gilded Cloister, a club on the second tier of the Savrola, just a few blocks down from the Villa Candessa. The Cloister was a labyrinth of dark wood enclosures, well padded with leather and quilting for the benefit of diners wishing an unusual degree of solitude. The waitstaff, in their leather aprons and drooping red caps, were forbidden to speak, answering all customer requests with either a nod or a shake of the head.\par
\par
\tab Jean\rquote s dinner, smoked rock eel in caramel-brandy sauce, lay chopped into fragments and scattered like debris from a battle. He was making his way slowly through dessert, a cluster of marzipan dragonflies with crystallized sugar wings that glimmered in the steady glow of the booth\rquote s candles. He was absorbed in a leatherbound copy of Lucarno\rquote s \i\f5 Tragedy of the Ten Honest Turncoats\i0\f4 , and he didn\rquote t notice Locke until the smaller man was already seated across from him in the booth.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Leocanto! You gave me a start.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Jerome.\rquote  They both spoke in a near-whisper. \lquote You really were nervous, weren\rquote t you? Nose buried in a book to keep you from going mad. Some things never change.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I wasn\rquote t nervous. I was merely reasonably concerned.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You needn\rquote t have been.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Is it done, then? Am I successfully betrayed?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Quite betrayed. Absolutely sold out. A dead man walking.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Wonderful! And his attitude?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Guarded. Ideal, I\rquote d say. Had he been too enthusiastic, I would be worried. And had he not been enthusiastic at all, well . . .\rquote  Locke mimicked shoving a knife into his chest and wiggling it several times. \lquote Is this smoked eel?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Help yourself. It\rquote s stuffed with apricots and soft yellow onions. Not entirely to my taste.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab Locke took up Jean\rquote s fork and helped himself to a few bites of the eel; he was more partial to the stuffing than Jean had been. \lquote We\rquote re going to lose two-thirds of my account, it seems,\rquote  he said after making some progress on the dish. \lquote A tax on cheating to remind me not to presume too much on Requin\rquote s patience.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, it\rquote s not as though we expected to get out of the city with the money in those accounts. Might\rquote ve been nice to have it for a few more weeks, at least.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote True. But I think the alternative would have been desktop surgery, whether I needed a hand amputated or not. What\rquote re you reading?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean showed him the title and Locke feigned choking. \lquote Why is it always Lucarno? You drag him everywhere we go, his damn romances. Your brains will go soft with all that mush. You\rquote ll end up more fit for tending flower-gardens than for running confidence games.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote I shall be sure to criticize your reading habits, Master Kosta, should I ever see you develop any.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ve read quite a bit!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote History and biography, mostly what Chains prescribed for you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What could possibly be wrong with those subjects?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote As for history, we are living in its ruins. And as for biographies, we are living with the consequences of all the decisions ever made in them. I tend not to read them for pleasure. It\rquote s not unlike carefully scrutinizing the map when one has already reached the destination.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote But romances aren\rquote t real, and surely never were. Doesn\rquote t that take away some of the savour?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What an interesting choice of words. \ldblquote Not real, and never were.\rdblquote  Could there be any more appropriate literature for men of our profession? Why are you always so averse to fiction, when we\rquote ve made it our meal-ticket?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote I live in the real world,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote and my methods are of the real world. They are, just as you say, a profession. A practicality, not some romantic whim.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean set the book down before him and tapped its cover. \lquote This is where you and I are headed, Thorn\emdash  or at least you are. Look for us in history books and you\rquote ll find us in the margins. Look for us in legends and you might just find us celebrated.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Exaggerated, you mean. Lied about. Trumped up, or stamped down. The truth of anything we do will die with us and nobody else will ever have a bloody clue.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Better that than obscurity! I recall you once had quite a taste for drama. For plays, if nothing else.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes.\rquote  Locke folded his hands on the table and lowered his voice even further. \lquote And you know what happened to it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Forgive me,\rquote  said Jean with a sigh. \lquote I should have known better than to bring up that particular red-headed subject once again.\rquote\par
\par
\tab A waiter appeared at the entrance to the little booth, looking attentively at Locke.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh, no,\rquote  said Locke, and set Jean\rquote s fork back on the eel plate. \lquote Nothing for me, I\rquote m afraid. I\rquote m just here waiting for my friend to finish his little candied wasps.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Dragonflies.\rquote  Jean popped the last one into his mouth, swallowed it nearly whole and tucked his book away within his coat. \lquote Give over the bill and I\rquote ll settle up with you.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab The waiter nodded, cleared away the used dishes and left a scrap of paper pinned to a small wooden tablet.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well,\rquote  said Locke as Jean counted copper coins from his purse, \lquote we\rquote ve no responsibilities for the rest of the evening. Requin is no doubt setting eyes on us as we speak. I think a night or two of light relaxation would be in order, to avoid upsetting him.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Great,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Why don\rquote t we wander around a bit, and maybe catch a boat over to the Emerald Galleries? They\rquote ve got coffee houses there, and music. Would it be in character for Leo and Jerome to get a bit tipsy and chase tavern dancers?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Jerome can murder as much ale as he likes and bother tavern dancers until the sun chases us home to bed. Leo will sit and watch the festivities.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Maybe play spot-the-shadow with Requin\rquote s people?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Maybe. Damn, I wish we had Bug to lurk on a few rooftops for us. We could use a pair of top-eyes; there\rquote s not a trustworthy one in this damn city.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I wish we still had Bug, full stop,\rquote  said Jean with a sigh. \par
\par
\tab They made their way to the foyer of the club, chatting quietly of imaginary business between Masters Kosta and de Ferra, batting little improvisations back and forth for the sake of any prying ears. It was just after midnight when they stepped out into the familiar quiet order and high walls of the Savrola. The place was artificially clean \endash  no knackers here, no blood in the alleys, no piss in the gutters. The grey brick streets were well lit by silvery lanterns in swaying iron frames; the whole district seemed framed in bright moonlight, though the sky that night was occluded by a high ceiling of dark clouds.    \par
\par
\tab The woman was waiting for them in the shadows on Locke\rquote s left. \par
\par
\tab She matched pace with him as he and Jean moved down the street. One of Locke\rquote s sleeve-stilettos fell into the palm of his hand before he could control the reflex, but she stayed a full yard away, with her hands folded behind her back. She was youngish, short and slender with dark hair pulled back into a long tail. She wore a vaguely fashionable dark coat and a four-cornered hat with a long grey silk scarf that trailed behind her like a ship\rquote s pennant as she walked.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Leocanto Kosta,\rquote  she said in a pleasant, even voice. \lquote I know you and your friend are armed. Let\rquote s not be difficult.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I beg your pardon, madam?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Move that blade in your hand and it\rquote s a shaft through the neck for you. Tell your friend to keep his hatchets under his coat. Let\rquote s just keep walking.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean began to move his left hand beneath his coat; Locke caught him with his right hand and swiftly shook his head. They were not alone on the street; people hurried here and there on business or pleasure, but some of them were staring at him and Jean. Some of them were standing in alleys and shadows, wearing unseasonably heavy cloaks, unmoving. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Shit,\rquote  Jean muttered. \lquote Rooftops.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke glanced up briefly. Across the street, atop the three- and four-storey stone buildings, he could see the silhouettes of at least two men moving slowly along with them, carrying thin, curved objects in their hands. Longbows. \par
\par
\tab\lquote You appear to have us at a disadvantage, madam,\rquote  said Locke, slipping his stiletto into a coat pocket and showing her his empty hand. \lquote To what do we owe the pleasure of your attention?\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote Someone wants to have a conversation with you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Clearly they knew where to find us. Why not simply join us for dinner?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Conversation should be private, don\rquote t you think?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Did a man in a rather tall tower send you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab She smiled but said nothing. A moment later, she gestured ahead of them. \lquote At the next corner, take a left. You\rquote ll see an open door, first building on your right. Go there. Follow directions.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Sure enough, the promised open door was waiting just past the next crossroads, a rectangle of yellow light casting a pale twin across the ground. The woman went in first. Locke, conscious of the presence of at least four or five nearby lurkers in addition to the rooftop archers, sighed and passed Jean a quick hand signal \endash  \i\f5 easy, easy\i0\f4 .\par
\par
\tab The place looked like a shop, disused but otherwise in good repair. There were six more people inside the room, men and women in silver-banded leather doublets with their backs up against the walls. Four of them held loaded crossbows, which neatly quashed any thoughts of resistance Locke might have been teasing around inside his head. Even Jean couldn\rquote t balance those odds. \par
\par
\tab One of the crossbowmen quietly closed the door, and the woman who\rquote d led Locke and Jean in turned. The front of her coat fell open and Locke could see that she, too, was wearing reinforced leather armour. She held out her hands.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Weapons,\rquote  she said, politely but firmly. \lquote Smartly, now.\rquote\par
\par
\tab When Locke and Jean glanced at one another, she laughed.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Don\rquote t be dense, gentlemen. If we wanted you dead you\rquote d already be pinned to the wall. I\rquote ll take good care of your property for you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Slowly, resignedly, Locke removed one of his stilettos from his pocket and shook the other out of his coat sleeve, and Jean followed suit with his matched pair of hatchets and no fewer than three daggers of his own.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I do like men who travel prepared,\rquote  said the woman. She passed their weapons to one of the men behind her and drew two lightweight cloth hoods out of her coat. She tossed one to Locke and one to Jean. \lquote On over your heads, please. Then we can get on with our business.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Why?\rquote  Jean sniffed at his hood suspiciously, and Locke followed suit. The cloth appeared to be clean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote For your own protection. Do you really want your faces out in the open if we drag you through the streets under guard?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I suppose not,\rquote  said Locke. Frowning, he slipped the hood on and found that it put him in total darkness. \par
\par
\tab There was a sound of footsteps and the swirl of moving coats. Strong hands seized Locke\rquote s arms and forced them together behind his back. A moment later, he felt something being woven tightly around his wrists. There was a louder tumult and a number of irritated grunts from beside him; presumably they had ganged up on Jean in heavy numbers.\par
\par
\tab\lquote There,\rquote  came the voice of the woman, now behind Locke. \lquote Now step lively. Don\rquote t worry about falling over \endash  you\rquote ll be assisted.\rquote\par
\par
\tab By \lquote assisted\rquote  she clearly meant that they\rquote d be seized and carried along by the arms. Locke felt hands close around his biceps and he cleared his throat.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Where are we going?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote For a boat ride, Master Kosta,\rquote  said the woman. \lquote Don\rquote t ask any more questions, because I won\rquote t answer them. Let\rquote s be on our way.\rquote\par
\par
\tab There was a creak as the door was thrown open once again, and a brief whirling sensation as he was pushed around and reoriented by the people holding him. Then they were moving back out into the muggy Verrari night, and Locke could feel heavy beads of sweat begin to slide their ticklish paths down his forehead.\par
\par
\cf1\tab Author Notes: Locke's trick with the multiple decks of cards is based on an actual sleight-of-hand performance I saw back in 2001 or 2002, late at night at a convention. The magician in question was interested in three-dimensional magic, that is, tricks performed at the center of an audience so that he couldn't cheat his way through them using special viewing angles. He did the whole "Is this your card?" spiel for a young woman, and then, feigning irritation at his inability to find it after a dozen cards or so, began producing complete decks from his supposedly empty pockets, which had been turned out for visual inspection before the trick began. He didn't produce quite as many decks as Locke did, but considering that he was wearing just shorts, sandals, and a t-shirt  at the time, it was still a damn good trick. \par
\par
\tab Jean's aversion to histories is emphatically \i\f5 not \i0\f4 shared by his author. I thought it would be interesting to give him a heartfelt literary opinion that was absolutely contrary to my own feelings.  \cf0\par
\cf1\par
\tab Originally, the statue of Requin was meant to be pissing forth its stream of gold coins. While I thought that was a very humorous touch, much in keeping with the sort of self-aware egotism Requin possesses, I also thought it was just silly enough to be a real mood-killer.\par
\par
\tab Although I generally try to avoid thinking of specific actors or real-world personalities when writing a character, while crafting Requin I was unable to stop thinking of Vincent Cassel, a French actor who played the eerie Jean-Francois de Morangias in \i\f5 Le pacte des loups\i0\f4  (a film that heavily informed the eventual aesthetic of TLOLL) and the much more charming expert cat-burglar Francois Toulour in \i\f5 Ocean's Twelve\i0\f4 . O12, in my opinion, is largely a shambling waste of a movie, but Cassel's role is delightful. I tried to imagine Requin as an older, somewhat more settled (and homicidal) version of that character, at least in terms of looks and demeanor.  \i\f5  \cf0\i0\f4\par
\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc\b\f2\fs28 Reminiscence: Best-Laid Plans\fs24\par
\pard\ri720\b0\f4\par
\par
\tab\lquote Shit,\rquote  said Locke as the deck of cards exploded outward from his sore left hand. Jean flinched back from the blizzard of paper that fluttered around the compartment of the carriage.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Try again,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote Perhaps the eighteenth time\rquote s the charm.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I used to be so damned good at this one-handed shuffle.\rquote  Locke began plucking up cards and reorganizing them into a neat pile. \lquote I bet I could do it better than Calo and Galdo, even. Damn, my hand aches.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, I know I pushed you to exercise,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote but you were a little out of practice even before you got hurt. Give it time.\rquote\par
\par
\tab A hard rain was falling around the jouncing black luxury carriage as it threaded its way along the old Therin Throne Road through the foothills just east of the Tal Verrar coast. A hunched middle-aged woman worked the reins of the six-horse team from her open box atop the cabin, with the cowl of her oilcloak pulled forward to protect the smouldering bowl of her pipe. Two outrider guards huddled in misery on the rear footboard, secured by wide leather straps around their waists.\par
\par
\tab Jean was peering over a sheaf of notes, flipping parchment pages back and forth, muttering to himself. The rain was beating hard against the right side of the closed cabin, but they were able to keep the left-hand window open, with its mesh screens and leather shutters drawn back to admit muggy air that smelled of manured fields and salt marshes. A little yellow alchemical globe on the padded seat beside Jean provided reading light.\par
\par
\tab They were two weeks out from Vel Virazzo, a good hundred miles to the north-west, and well past the need to paint themselves up with apple mash to move freely. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Here\rquote s what all my sources say,\rquote  said Jean, when Locke had finished recovering his cards. \lquote Requin\rquote s somewhere in his forties. Native Verrari, but he speaks a bit of Vadran and supposedly he\rquote s a genius at Throne Therin. He\rquote s an art collector, mad about the painters and sculptors from the very last years of the Empire. Nobody knows what he did prior to twenty years ago. Apparently he won the Sinspire on a bet and threw the previous owner out of a window.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote And he\rquote s tight with the \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4 ?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Most of them, it appears.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Any idea how much he keeps in his vaults?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Conservative estimate,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote at least enough to pay out any debts the house might incur. He could never allow himself to be embarrassed in that respect \endash  so let\rquote s say fifty thousand solari, at least. Plus his personal fortune, plus the combined goods and fortunes of a great many people. He doesn\rquote t pay interest like the best counting houses, but he doesn\rquote t keep transaction ledgers for the taxmen, either. Supposedly he has one book, hidden gods know where, amended only by his own hand. This is mostly hearsay, of course.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote That fifty thousand doesn\rquote t cover anything but the house\rquote s operating funds, right? So how much do you presume the \i\f5 total\i0\f4  contents of his vault would be worth?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s pure entrail-reading, without the entrails, even, but . . . three hundred thousand? Three hundred and fifty?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Sounds reasonable.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes, well, the details on the vault itself are much more solid. Apparently, Requin doesn\rquote t mind letting some of the facts get out. Thinks it dissuades thieves.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote They always do, don\rquote t they?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote In this case, they may be on to something. Listen. The Sinspire is about fifty yards high, one thick Elderglass cylinder. You know about those \endash  you tried to jump off one about two months ago. Goes down another hundred feet or so into a glass hill. It\rquote s got one door at street level, and exactly one door into the vault beneath the tower. One. No secrets, no side entrances. The ground is pristine Elderglass; no tunnelling through it, not in a thousand years.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmmm-hmmm.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Requin\rquote s got at least four attendants on each floor at any given time, plus dozens of table-minders, card-dealers and waiters. There\rquote s a lounge on the third floor where he keeps more out of sight. So figure, at a minimum, fifty or sixty loyal workers on duty with another twenty to thirty he can call out. Lots of nasty brutes, too. He likes to recruit ex-soldiers, mercenaries, city thieves and such. He gives cushy positions to his Right People for jobs well done, and he pays them like he was their doting mother. Plus, there are stories of dealers getting a year\rquote s wages in tips from lucky blue-bloods in just a night or two. Bribery won\rquote t be likely to work on anyone.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmmm-hmmm.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote He\rquote s got three layers of vault doors, all of them iron-shod witchwood, three or four inches thick. Last set of doors is supposedly backed with blackened steel, so even if you had a week to chop through the other two, you\rquote d never get past the third. All of them have clockwork mechanisms, the best and most expensive Verrari stuff, private designs from masters of the Artificers\rquote  Guild. The standing orders are, not one set of doors opens unless he\rquote s there himself to see it; he watches every deposit and every withdrawal. Opens the doors a couple of times per day at most. Behind the first set of doors are four to eight guards, in rooms with cots, food and water. They can hold out there for a week, under siege.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmm-hmm.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote The inner sets of doors don\rquote t open except for a key he keeps around his neck. The outer doors won\rquote t open except for a key he always gives to his major-domo. So you\rquote d need them both to get anywhere.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmm-hmm.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And the traps . . . they\rquote re demented, or at least the rumours are. Pressure plates, counterweights, crossbows in the walls and ceilings. Contact poisons, sprays of acid, chambers full of venomous serpents or spiders . . . one fellow even said that there\rquote s a chamber before the last door that fills up with a cloud of powdered Strangler\rquote s Orchid petals, and while you\rquote re choking to death on that, a bit of twist-match falls out and lights the whole mess on fire, so then you burn to a crisp. Insult to injury.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Mmm-hmmm.\rquote   \par
\par
\tab\lquote Worst of all, the inner vault is guarded by a live dragon, attended by fifty naked women armed with poisoned spears, each of them sworn to die in Requin\rquote s service. All redheads.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re just making that up, Jean.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I wanted to see if you were listening. But what I\rquote m saying is, I don\rquote t care if he\rquote s got a million solari in there, packed in bags for easy hauling. I\rquote m inclined to the idea that this vault might not be breakable, not unless you\rquote ve got three hundred soldiers, six or seven wagons and a team of master clockwork artificers you\rquote re not telling me about.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Right.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote\i\f5 Do\i0\f4  you have three hundred soldiers, six or seven wagons and a team of master clockwork artificers you\rquote re not telling me about?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No, I\rquote ve got you, me, the contents of our coin-purses, this carriage and a deck of cards.\rquote  He attempted a complicated manipulation of the cards and they erupted out of his hand yet again, scattering against the opposite seat. \lquote Fuck me with a poleaxe!\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Then if I might persist, Lord of Legerdemain, perhaps there\rquote s some other target in Tal Verrar we might consider\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m not sure that\rquote d be wise. Tal Verrar\rquote s got no twit-riddled aristocracy for us to fool around with. The Archon\rquote s a military tyrant on a long leash \endash  he can bend the laws as he sees fit, so I\rquote d rather not yank his breechclout. The \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4  councils are all merchants from common stock, and they\rquote ll be damned hard to cheat. There\rquote s plenty of likely subjects for small-time games, but if we want a big game, Requin\rquote s the best one to hit. He\rquote s got what we want, right there for the taking.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yet his vault\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Let me tell you,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote exactly what we\rquote re going to do about his vault.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke spoke for a few minutes while he put his deck of cards together, outlining the barest details of his scheme. Jean\rquote s eyebrows strained upward, attempting to take to the air above his head.\par
\par
\tab\lquote . . . So that\rquote s that. Now what do you say, Jean?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ll be damned. That might just work. If\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Are you sure you remember how to work a climbing harness? I\rquote m a bit rusty myself.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We\rquote ll have quite a while to practise, won\rquote t we?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hopefully. Hmmm. And we\rquote ll need a carpenter. One from outside Tal Verrar itself, obviously.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We can go looking into that as well, once we\rquote ve got a bit of coin back in our pockets.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean sighed, and all the banter went out of him like wine from a punctured skin. \lquote I suppose . . . that just leaves . . . damn.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I, ah . . . well, hell. Are you going to break down on me again? Are you going to stay reliable?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Stay \i\f5 reliable\i0\f4 ? Jean, you can . . . damn it, look for yourself! What have I been doing? Exercising, planning \endash  and apologizing all the damn time! I\rquote m sorry, Jean, I really am. Vel Virazzo was a bad time. I miss Calo, Galdo and Bug.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote As do I, but\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I know. I let my sorrow get the best of me. It was damned selfish, and I \i\f5 know\i0\f4  you must ache like I do. I said some stupid things. But I thought I\rquote d been forgiven . . . did I misunderstand?\rquote  Locke\rquote s voice hardened. \lquote Shall I now understand that forgiveness as something prone to going in and out like the tide?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Now that\rquote s hardly fair. Just\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Just what? Am I special, Jean? Am I our only liability? When have I ever doubted your skills? When have I ever treated you like a child? You\rquote re not my fucking mother, and you\rquote re certainly not Chains. We can\rquote t work as partners if you\rquote re going to sit in judgement of me like this.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The two of them stared at one another, each trying to muster an attitude of cold indignation, and each failing. The mood within the little cabin turned morose, and Jean turned to stare sullenly out through the window for a few moments while Locke dejectedly shuffled his cards. He attempted another one-handed cut, and neither he nor Jean seemed surprised when a little blizzard of paper chits settled into the seat beside Jean.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m sorry,\rquote  Locke said as his cards fluttered down. \lquote That was another shitty thing to say. Gods, when did we discover how easy it is to be cruel to one another?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re right,\rquote  Jean said softly. \lquote I\rquote m not Chains and I\rquote m certainly not your mother. I shouldn\rquote t push you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No, you should. You pushed me off that galleon and you pushed me out of Vel Virazzo. \i\f5 You\i0\f4  were right. I behaved terribly, and I can understand if you\rquote re still . . . nervous about me. I was so wrapped up in what I\rquote d lost, I forgot what I still had. I\rquote m glad you still worry enough about me to kick my arse when I need it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I, ah, look \endash  I apologize as well. I just\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Dammit, don\rquote t interrupt me when I\rquote m feeling virtuously self-critical. I\rquote m ashamed of how I behaved in Vel Virazzo. It was a slight to everything we\rquote ve been through together. I promise to do better. Does that put you at ease?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes. Yes, it does.\rquote  Jean began to pick up the scattered cards, and the ghost of a smile reappeared on his face. Locke settled back in his seat and rubbed his eyes.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods. We need a target, Jean. We need a \i\f5 game\i0\f4 . We need someone to go to work on, as a team. Don\rquote t you see? It\rquote s not just about what we can charm out of Requin. I want it to be us against the world, lively and dangerous, just like it used to be. Where there\rquote s no room for this sort of second-guessing, you know?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Because we\rquote re constantly inches from a horrible bloody death, you mean.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Right. The good times.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote This plan might take a year,\rquote  said Jean, slowly. \lquote Maybe two.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote For a game this interesting, I\rquote m \i\f5 willing\i0\f4  to spend a year or two. You have any other pressing engagements?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Jean shook his head, passed the collected cards to Locke and went back to his sheaf of notes, a deeply thoughtful expression on his face. Locke slowly traced the outline of the deck of cards with the fingers of his left hand, which felt slightly less useful than a crab claw. He could feel the still-fresh scars itching beneath his cotton tunic \endash  scars so extensive it looked as though most of his left side had been sewn together from rag parts. Gods \i\f5 damn\i0\f4  it, he was ready to be healed \i\f5 now\i0\f4 . He was ready to have his old careless agility back. He imagined that he felt like a man of twice his years.\par
\par
\tab He tried another one-handed shuffle, and the deck fell apart in his hands. At least it hadn\rquote t shot apart in all directions. Was that improvement? \par
\par
\tab He and Jean were silent for several minutes.\par
\par
\tab Eventually, the carriage rattled around a final small hill and suddenly Locke was looking across a green checkerboard landscape, sloping downward to sea-cliffs perhaps five or six miles distant. Specks of grey and white and black dotted the landscape, thickening toward the horizon, where the landside of Tal Verrar crowded against the cliff-edges. The coastal section of the city seemed pressed down beneath the rain; great silvery curtains were sweeping past behind it, blotting out the islands of Tal Verrar proper. Lightning crackled blue and white in the distance, and soft peals of thunder rolled toward them across the fields. \par
\par
\tab\lquote We\rquote re here,\rquote  said Locke.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Landside,\rquote  said Jean without looking up. \lquote Might as well find an inn when we get there; we\rquote ll be hard-pressed to find a boat to the islands in weather like this.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Who shall we be, when we get there?\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab Jean looked up and chewed his lip before taking the bait of their old game. \lquote Let\rquote s be something other than Camorri for a while. Camorr\rquote s brought us nothing good of late.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Talishani?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Sounds good to me.\rquote  Jean adjusted his voice slightly, adopting the faint but characteristic accent of the city of Talisham. \lquote Anonymous Unknown of Talisham, and his associate Unknown Anonymous, also of Talisham.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What names did we leave on the books at Meraggio\rquote s?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, Lukas Fehrwight and Evante Eccari are right out. Even if those accounts haven\rquote t been confiscated by the state, they\rquote ll be watched. You trust the Spider not to get a burr up her arse if she finds out we\rquote re active in Tal Verrar?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote I seem to recall . . . Jerome de Ferra, Leocanto Kosta and Milo Voralin.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I opened the Milo Voralin account myself. He\rquote s supposed to be Vadran. I think we might leave him in reserve.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And that\rquote s all we have left? Three useful accounts?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Sadly, yes. But it\rquote s more than most thieves get. I\rquote ll be Jerome.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I suppose I\rquote ll be Leocanto, then. What are we doing in Tal Verrar, Jerome?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We\rquote re . . . hired men for a Lashani countess. She\rquote s thinking of buying a summer home in Tal Verrar and we\rquote re there to hunt one down for her.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hmmm. That might be good for a few months, but after we\rquote ve looked at all the available properties, then what? And there\rquote s lots of actual work involved if we don\rquote t want everyone to know right away that we\rquote re lying through our teeth. What if we call ourselves . . . merchant-speculators?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Merchant-speculators. That\rquote s good. It doesn\rquote t have to mean a damn thing.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Exactly. If we spend all our time lounging around the chance-houses cutting cards, well, we\rquote re just passing time waiting for market conditions to ripen.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Or we\rquote re so good at our jobs we hardly need to work at all.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Our lines write themselves. How did we meet, and how long have we been together?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We met five years ago.\rquote  Jean scratched his beard. \lquote On a sea voyage. We became business partners out of sheer boredom. Since then we\rquote ve been inseparable.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Except that my plan calls for me to be plotting your death.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes, but I don\rquote t know that, do I? Boon companion! I suspect nothing.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Chump! I can hardly wait to see you get yours.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And the loot? Assuming we do manage to work our way into Requin\rquote s confidence, and we do manage to call the dance properly, and we do manage to get out of his city with everything intact . . . we haven\rquote t really talked about what comes after that.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We\rquote ll be old thieves, Jean.\rquote  Locke squinted and tried to pick out details of the rain-swept landscape as the carriage made its final turn down the long, straight road into Tal Verrar. \lquote Old thieves of seven-and-twenty, or perhaps eight-and-twenty, when we finish this. I don\rquote t know. How would you feel about becoming a viscount?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Lashain,\rquote  Jean mused. \lquote Buy a pair of titles, you mean? Settle there for good?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Not sure if I\rquote d go that far. But last I heard, poor titles were running about ten thousand Solari, and better ones fifteen to twenty. It\rquote d give us a home and some clout. We could do whatever we wanted from there. Plot more games. Grow old in comfort.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Retirement?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We can\rquote t run around false-facing for ever, Jean. I think we both realize that. Sooner or later we\rquote ll need to favour another style of crime. Let\rquote s tease a nice big score out of this place and then sink it into something \i\f5 useful\i0\f4 . Build something again. Whatever comes after . . . well, we can charm that lock when we come to it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Viscount Anonymous Unknown of Lashain \endash  and his neighbour, Viscount Unknown Anonymous. There are worse fates, I suppose.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote There certainly are \endash  Jerome. So are you with me?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course, Leocanto. You know that. Maybe another two years of honest thieving will leave me \i\f5 ready\i0\f4  to retire. I could get back into silks and shipping, like mother and father \endash  perhaps look up some of their old contacts, if I can remember them right.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I think Tal Verrar will be good for us,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote It\rquote s a pristine city. We\rquote ve never worked out of it and it\rquote s never seen our like. Nobody knows us, nobody expects us. We\rquote ll have total freedom of movement.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The carriage clattered along under the rain, jostling against patches where the weathered stones of the Therin Throne Road had been washed clean of their protective layers of dirt. Lightning lit the sky in the distance but the grey veil swirled thick between land and sea, and the great mass of Tal Verrar was hidden from their eyes as they rode down into it for the first time.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re almost certainly right, Locke. I think we \i\f5 do\i0\f4  need a game.\rquote  Jean set his notes on his lap and cracked his knuckles. \lquote Gods, but it\rquote ll be good to be out and around. It\rquote ll be good to be the predators again.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\cf1 Author's Notes: Locke is a real weenie when he's injured or mourning. It's always good, I think, to finally see him get back on his feet and get hungry for the big score again. \par
\par
\tab I also wanted to establish, with this scene, roughly how old the pair of them are. Locke is only vaguely aware of his real age, but Jean is more certain of his- the chronology they offer here would make them 27-28 at the end of RSURS, 25-26 during its initial flashbacks, and about 24 for the early events of TLOLL.\cf0  \par
\par
\tab\cf1 While we tend to think of the late 20s as an extension of childhood, more or less, in the developed countries of the 21st century, I wanted to imply that Locke and Jean would consider that a very ripe and melancholy old age for a pair of thieves. It's certainly a ripe old age for the poor folks toiling in the fields to keep Locke and Jean fed. \cf0\par
\par
\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc\b\f2\fs28 CHAPTER THREE\par
WARM HOSPITALITY\fs24\par
\par
\par
\b0\f4 1\par
\pard\ri720\b\f2\par
\b0\f4\tab The chamber was a rough brick cube about eight feet on a side. It was completely dark, and an arid sauna heat was radiating from the walls, which were too hot to touch for more than a few seconds. Locke and Jean had been sweltering inside it for only the gods knew how long \endash  probably hours.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Agh.\rquote  Locke\rquote s voice was cracked. He and Jean were seated back to back in the blackness, leaning against one another for support, with their folded coats beneath them. Locke beat his heels against the stones of the floor, not for the first time.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods damn it!\rquote  Locke yelled. \lquote Let us out. You\rquote ve made your point!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What point,\rquote  rasped Jean, \lquote could that possibly be?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I don\rquote t know.\rquote  Locke coughed. \lquote I don\rquote t care. Whatever it is, they\rquote ve damn well made it, don\rquote t you think?\rquote\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 2\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab The removal of their hoods had been a relief, for about two heartbeats. \par
\par
\tab First had come an interminable interval spent stumbling around in stifling darkness, pulled and prodded along by captors who seemed to be in some haste. Next, there was indeed a boat ride; Locke could smell the warm salt mists rising off the city\rquote s harbour, while the deck swayed gently beneath him and oars creaked rhythmically in their locks. \par
\par
\tab Eventually, that too came to an end; the boat rocked as someone rose and moved about. The oars were drawn in and an unfamiliar voice called for poles. A few moments later, the boat bumped against something and strong hands again hoisted Locke to his feet. When he\rquote d been helped from the boat to a firm stone surface, the hood was suddenly whisked off his head. He looked around, blinked at the sudden light and said: \lquote Oh, shit.\rquote\par
\par
\tab At the heart of Tal Verrar, between the three crescent islands of the Great Guilds, lay the \i\f5 Castellana\i0\f4 , fortified estate of the Dukes of Tal Verrar centuries earlier. Now that the city had dispensed with titled nobility, the mansion-covered \i\f5 Castellana\i0\f4  was home to a new breed of well-heeled gentry \endash  the \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4  councillors, the independently rich and those guildmasters whose social positions required the most ostentations displays of spending power.\par
\par
\tab At the very heart of the \i\f5 Castellana\i0\f4 , guarded by a moat of empty air like a circular Elderglass canyon, was the Mon Magisteria, the palace of the Archon \endash  a towering human achievement springing upward from alien grandeur. An elegant stone weed growing in a glass garden.\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean had been brought to a point directly beneath it. Locke guessed that they stood within the hollow space that separated the Mon Magisteria from the surrounding island; a million-faceted cavern of darkened Elderglass soared upward around them, and the open air of the upper island lay fifty or sixty feet above their heads. The channel that the boat had travelled through wound away to his left, and the sound of the lapping water was drowned out by a distant rumbling noise with no visible cause.\par
\par
\tab There was a wide stone landing at the base of the Mon Magisteria\rquote s private island, with several boats tied up alongside it, including an enclosed ceremonial barge with silk awnings and gilded woodwork. Soft blue alchemical lamps in iron posts filled the space with light, and behind those posts a dozen soldiers stood at attention. Even if a quick glance upward hadn\rquote t told Locke the identity of their captor, those soldiers would have revealed everything.  \par
\par
\tab They wore dark-blue doublets and breeches, with black leather bracers, vests and boots all chased with raised designs in gleaming brass. Blue hoods were drawn up around the backs of their heads and their faces were covered with featureless oval masks of polished bronze. Grids of tiny pinholes permitted them to see and breathe, but from a distance every impression of humanity was erased \endash  the soldiers were faceless sculptures brought to life.\par
\par
\tab The Eyes of the Archon.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Here you are then, Master Kosta, Master de Ferra.\rquote  The woman who\rquote d waylaid Locke and Jean stepped up onto the landing between them and took them by the elbows, smiling as though they were out for a night on the town. \lquote Is this not a more private place for a conversation?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote have we done to warrant our transport here?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m the wrong person to ask,\rquote  said the woman as she pushed them gently forward. \lquote My job is to retrieve, and deliver.\rquote\par
\par
\tab She released Locke and Jean just before the front rank of the Archon\rquote s soldiers. Their own disquieted expressions were reflected back at them in a dozen gleaming bronze masks.\par
\par
\tab\lquote And sometimes,\rquote  said the woman as she returned to the boat, \lquote when guests don\rquote t come back out again, my job is to forget that I ever saw them at all.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The Eyes of the Archon moved without apparent signal; Locke and Jean were enveloped and secured by several soldiers apiece. One of them spoke \endash  another woman, her voice echoing ominously. \lquote We will go up. You must not struggle and you must not speak.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Or what?\rquote  said Locke.\par
\par
\tab The Eye who\rquote d spoken stepped over to Jean without hesitation and punched him in the stomach. The big man exhaled in surprise and grimaced, while the female Eye turned back to Locke. \lquote If either of you causes any trouble, I\rquote m instructed to punish the \i\f5 other\i0\f4  one. Do I make myself clear?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke ground his teeth together and nodded. \par
\par
\tab A wide set of switchback stairs led upward from the landing; the glass underfoot was rough as brick. Flight by flight the Archon\rquote s soldiers led Locke and Jean up past gleaming walls, until the moist night breeze of the city was on their faces once again.\par
\par
\tab They emerged within the perimeter defined by the glass chasm. A guardhouse stood just on their side of the thirty-foot gap, beside a drawbridge currently hauled straight up into the air and set inside a heavy wood frame. Locke presumed that was the usual means of entrance to the Archon\rquote s domain.\par
\par
\tab The Mon Magisteria was a ducal fortress in the true Therin Throne style, easily fifteen storeys high at its peak and three or four times as wide. Layer after layer of crenellated battlements rose up, formed from flat black stones that absorbed the fountains of light thrown up by dozens of lanterns burning on the castle\rquote s grounds. Columned aqueducts circled the walls and towers at every level, and decorative streams of water cascaded down from sculptures of dragons and sea monsters set at the fortress\rquote s corners.\par
\par
\tab The Eyes of the Archon led Locke and Jean toward the front of the palace, down a wide path dusted with white gravel. There were lush green lawns on either side of the path, set behind decorative stone borders that made the lawns resemble islands. More blue-robed and black-armoured guards in bronze masks stood unmoving along the path, holding up blackened-steel halberds with alchemical lights built into their wooden shafts. \par
\par
\tab Where most castles would have a front gate the Mon Magisteria had a rushing waterfall wider than the path on which they stood; this was the source of the noise Locke had heard echoing at the boat landing below. Multiple torrents of water crashed out of huge, dark apertures set in a line running straight up the castle wall. These joined and fell into a churning moat at the very base of the structure, a moat even wider than the glass-sided canyon that cut the castle grounds off from the rest of the \i\f5 Castellana\i0\f4 . \par
\par
\tab A bridge, slightly arched, vanished into the pounding white waterfall about halfway over the moat. Warm mist wafted up around them as their party approached the near end of this bridge, which Locke could now see had some sort of niche cut into it, running right along its centre for its full visible length. Beside the bridge was an iron pull-chain hanging from the top of a narrow stone pillar. The Eye officer reached up for this and gave it three swift tugs.\par
\par
\tab A moment later there came a metallic rattling noise from the direction of the bridge. A dark shape loomed within the waterfall, grew and then burst out toward them with mist and water exploding off its roof. It was a long box of iron-ribbed wood, fifteen feet high and as wide as the bridge. Rumbling, it slid along the track carved into the bridge until it halted with a squeal of metal-on-metal just before them. Doors popped open toward them, pushed from the inside by two attendants in dark-blue coats with silver-braid trim. \par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean were ushered into the roomy conveyance, which had windows set into the end facing the castle. Through them, Locke could see nothing but rushing water. The waterfall pounded off the roof; the noise was like being in a carriage during a heavy storm.\par
\par
\tab When Locke and Jean and all the Eyes had stepped into the box, the attendants drew the doors closed. One of them pulled a chain set into the right-hand wall, and with a lurching rumble the box was drawn back to where it had come from. The waterfall pounded off the roof; the noise was like being in a carriage during a heavy storm. As they passed through it, Locke guessed that it was fifteen to twenty feet wide. An unprotected man would never be able to pass beneath it without being knocked into the moat, which he supposed was precisely the point.\par
\par
\tab That, and it was a hell of a way to show off. \par
\par
\tab They soon pushed through the other side of the falls. Locke could see that they were being drawn into a huge hemispherical hall, with a curved far wall and a ceiling about thirty feet high. Alchemical chandeliers shed light on the hall, silver and white and gold, so that the place gleamed like a treasure vault through the distortion of the water-covered windows. When the conveyor box ground to a halt, the attendants manipulated unseen latches to crack open the forward windows like a pair of giant doors. \par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean were prodded out of the box, but more gently than before. The stones at their feet were slick with water, and they followed the example of the guards in treading carefully. The waterfall roared at their backs for a moment longer, and then two huge doors slammed together behind the conveyor box and the deafening noise became a dull echo.\par
\par
\tab Some sort of water engine could be seen in a wall niche to Locke\rquote s left. Several men and women stood before gleaming cylinders of brass, working levers attached to mechanical contrivances whose functions were well beyond Locke\rquote s capability to guess. Heavy iron chains disappeared into dark holes in the floor just beside the track the huge wooden box rode along. Jean, too, cocked his head for a closer look at this curiosity, but once past the danger of the slick stones, the soldiers\rquote  brief spate of tolerance passed and they shoved the two thieves along at a good clip once again.\par
\par
\tab Through the entrance hall, wide and grand enough to host several balls at once, they passed at speed. The hall had no windows open to the outside, but rather artificial panoramas of stained glass, lit from behind. Each window showed a stylized view of what \i\f5 would\i0\f4  be seen through a real hole cut in the stone \endash  white buildings and mansions, dark skies, the tiers of islands across the harbour, dozens of sails in the main anchorage. \par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean were escorted down a side hall, up a flight of steps and down another hall, past blue-coated guards standing stiffly at attention. Was it Locke\rquote s imagination, or did something more than ordinary respect creep into their faces when the bronze masks of the Eyes swept past them? There was no more time to ponder, for they were suddenly halted before their evident destination. In a corridor full of wooden doorways, they stood before one made of metal. \par
\par
\tab An Eye stepped forward, unlocked the door and pushed it open. The room beyond was small and dark. Soldiers rapidly undid the bonds around Locke and Jean\rquote s wrists, and then the two of them were shoved forward into the little room. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Hey, wait just a damn\emdash\rquote  said Locke, but the door slammed shut behind them and the sudden blackness was absolute. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Perelandro,\rquote  said Jean. He and Locke spent a few seconds stumbling into one another before they managed to regain some balance and dignity. \lquote How on earth did we attract the attention of \i\f5 these\i0\f4  bloody arseholes?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I don\rquote t know, Jerome.\rquote  Locke emphasized the pseudonym very slightly. \lquote But maybe the walls have ears. Hey! Bloody arseholes! No need to be coy! We\rquote re perfectly well behaved when civilly incarcerated.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab Locke stumbled toward the remembered location of the nearest wall to pound his fists against it. He discovered for the first time that it was rough brick. \lquote Damnation,\rquote  he muttered, and sucked at a scraped knuckle.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Odd,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote What?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I can\rquote t be sure.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote\i\f5 What?\i0\f4\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Is it just me, or does it seem to be getting warmer in here?\rquote\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 3\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab Time went by with all the speed of a sleepless night.\par
\tab\par
\tab Locke was seeing colours flashing and wobbling in the darkness, and while part of him knew they weren\rquote t real, that part of him was becoming less and less assertive with every passing minute. The heat was like a weight pressing in on every inch of his skin. His tunic was wide open and he\rquote d slipped his neck-cloths off so he could wrap them around his hands to steady himself as he leaned back against Jean. \par
\par
\tab When the door clicked open, it took him a few seconds to realize that he wasn\rquote t imagining things. The crack of white light grew into a square, and he flinched back with his hands over his eyes. The air from the corridor fell across him like a cool autumn breeze. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen,\rquote  said a voice from beyond the square of light, \lquote there has been a terrible misunderstanding.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Ungh gah ah,\rquote  was all the response Locke could muster as he tried to remember just how his knees worked. His mouth felt dryer than if it had been packed with cornmeal. \par
\par
\tab Strong, cool hands reached out to help him to his feet; the room swam around him as he and Jean were helped back out into the bliss of the corridor. They were surrounded once again by blue doublets and bronze masks, but Locke squinted against the light and felt more ashamed than afraid. He \i\f5 knew\i0\f4  he was confused, almost as though he were drunk, and he was powerless to do anything more than grasp at the vague realization. He was carried along corridors and up stairs (stairs! Gods! How many sets could there be in one bloody palace?), with his legs only sometimes bearing their fair share of his weight. He felt like a puppet in a cruel comedy with an unusually large stage set.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Water,\rquote  he managed to gasp out.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Soon,\rquote  said one of the soldiers carrying him. \lquote Very soon.\rquote\par
\par
\tab At last he and Jean were ushered through tall black doors into a softly lit office with walls that appeared to be made up of thousands upon thousands of tiny glass cells, filled with little flickering shadows. Locke blinked and cursed his condition; he\rquote d heard sailors talk of \lquote dry-drunk\rquote , the stupidity, weakness and irritability that seized a man in great want of water, but he\rquote d never imagined he\rquote d experience it first-hand. It was making everything very strange indeed; no doubt it was embellishing the details of a perfectly ordinary room.\par
\par
\tab The office held a small table and three plain wooden chairs. Locke steered himself toward one of them gratefully, but was firmly restrained and held upright by the soldiers at his arms. \par
\par
\tab\lquote You must wait,\rquote  said one of them. \par
\par
\tab Though not for long; a scant few heartbeats later, another door opened into the office. A man in long fur-trimmed robes of deep-water blue strode in, clearly agitated.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods defend the Archon of Tal Verrar,\rquote  said the four soldiers in unison.\par
\par
\tab\i\f5 Maxilan Stragos\i0\f4 , came Locke\rquote s dazed realization, \i\f5 the gods-damned supreme warlord of Tal Verrar\i0\f4 .\par
\par
\tab\lquote For pity\rquote s sake, let these men have their chairs,\rquote  said the Archon. \lquote We have already done them a grievous wrong, Sword-Prefect. We shall now extend them every possible courtesy. After all . . . we are not Camorri.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course, Archon.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean were quickly helped into their seats. When the soldiers were reasonably certain that they wouldn\rquote t topple over immediately, they stepped back and stood at attention behind them. The Archon waved his hand irritably.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Dismissed, Sword-Prefect.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote But . . . Your Honour . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Out of my sight. You have already conjured a serious embarrassment from my very clear instructions for these men. As a result, they are in no shape to be any threat to me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote But . . . yes, Archon.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The sword-prefect gave a stiff bow, which the other three soldiers repeated. The four of them hurriedly left the office, closing the door behind them with the elaborate click-clack of a clockwork mechanism.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gentlemen,\rquote  said the Archon, \lquote you must accept my deepest apologies. My instructions were misconstrued. You were to be given every courtesy. Instead, you were shown to the sweltering chamber, which is reserved for criminals of the lowest sort. I would trust my Eyes to be the equal of ten times their number in any fight, yet in this simple matter they have dishonoured me. I must take responsibility. You must forgive this misunderstanding, and allow me the honour of showing you a better sort of hospitality.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke mustered his will to attempt a suitable response, and whispered a silent prayer of thanks to the Crooked Warden when Jean spoke first. \par
\par
\tab\lquote The honour is ours, Protector.\rquote  His voice was hoarse but his wits seemed to be returning faster than Locke\rquote s. \lquote The chamber was a small price to pay for the pleasure of such an . . . an unexpected audience. There is nothing to forgive.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You are an uncommonly gracious man,\rquote  said Stragos. \lquote Please, dispense with the superfluities. It will do to call me \ldblquote Archon\rdblquote  .\rquote\par
\par
\tab There was a soft knock at the door through which the Archon had entered the office.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Come,\rquote  he said, and in bustled a short, bald man in elaborate blue and silver livery. He carried a silver tray, on which there were three crystal goblets and a large bottle of some pale-amber liquid. Locke and Jean fixed their gazes on this bottle with the intensity of hunters about to fling their last javelins at some charging beast. \par
\par
\tab When the servant set the tray down and reached for the bottle, the Archon gestured for him to withdraw and took up the bottle himself. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Go,\rquote  he said, \lquote I am perfectly capable of serving these poor gentlemen myself.\rquote\par
\par
\tab The attendant bowed and vanished back through the door. Stragos withdrew the already loosened cork from the bottle and filled two goblets to their brims with its contents. That wet gurgle and splash brought an expectant ache to the insides of Locke\rquote s cheeks. \par
\par
\tab\lquote It is customary,\rquote  said Stragos, \lquote for the host to drink first when serving in this city . . . to establish a basis for trust in what he happens to be serving.\rquote  He dashed two fingers of liquid into the third goblet, lifted it to his lips and swallowed it at a gulp.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Ahh,\rquote  he said as he passed the full goblets over to Locke and Jean without further hesitation. \lquote There now. Drink up. No need to be delicate. I\rquote m an old campaigner.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean were anything but delicate; they gulped down the offered drinks with grateful abandon. Locke wouldn\rquote t have cared if the offering had been squeezed earthworm juice, but it was in fact some sort of pear cider, with just the slightest bite. A child\rquote s liquor, barely capable of intoxicating a sparrow, and an astute choice given their condition. The pleasantly tart, cold cider coated the inside of Locke\rquote s tortured throat and he shuddered with pleasure.\par
\par
\tab He and Jean thrust out their empty goblets without thinking, but Stragos was already waiting with the bottle in hand. He refilled their cups, smiling benevolently. Locke inhaled half of his new goblet, then forced himself to make the second half last. Already a new strength seemed to be radiating outward from his stomach, and he sighed with relief. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Many thanks, Archon,\rquote  he said. \lquote May I, ah, presume to ask how Jerome and I have offended you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Offended me? Not at all.\rquote  Stragos, still smiling, set down the bottle and seated himself behind the little table. He reached toward the wall and pulled a silk cord; a shaft of pale-amber light fell from the ceiling, illuminating the centre of the table. \lquote What you\rquote ve done, young fellows, is catch my interest.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Stragos sat framed by the shaft of light, and Locke studied him for the first time. A man of very late middle years, surely nearing sixty if not already past it. A strangely precise man, with squared-off features. His skin was pink and weathered, his hair a flat grey roof. In Locke\rquote s experience, most powerful men were either ascetics or gluttons; Stragos appeared to be neither \endash  a man of balance. And his eyes were shrewd, shrewd as a usurer with a client in need. Locke sipped at his pear cider and prayed for wit. \par
\par
\tab The golden light was caught and reflected by the glass cells that walled the room, and when Locke let his eyes wander for a moment he was startled to see their contents moving. The little fluttering shadows were butterflies, moths, beetles \endash  hundreds of them, perhaps thousands. Each one in its own little glass prison . . . the Archon\rquote s study was walled in with the largest insect collection Locke had ever heard of, let alone seen with his own eyes. Beside him, Jean gasped, evidently having noticed the same thing. The Archon chuckled indulgently. \par
\par
\tab\lquote My collection. Is it not striking?\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab He reached toward the wall again and pulled another silken cord; soft white light grew behind the glass walls until the full details of each specimen became plainly visible. There were butterflies with scarlet wings, blue wings, green wings . . . some with multicoloured patterns more intricate than tattoos. There were grey, black and gold moths with curled antennae. There were beetles with burnished carapaces that gleamed like precious metals, and wasps with translucent wings flickering above their sinister tapered bodies. \par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s incredible,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote How can it be possible?\rquote  \par
\par
 \tab\lquote Oh, it isn\rquote t. They\rquote re all artificial, the best artistry and artisanry can provide. A clockwork mechanism several floors below works a set of bellows, sending gusts of air up shafts behind the walls of this office. Each cell has a tiny aperture at the rear. The fluttering of the wings looks quite random and realistic . . . in semi-darkness, one might never realize the truth.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s no less incredible,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, this is the city of artifice,\rquote  said the Archon. \lquote Living creatures can require such tedious care. You might think of my Mon Magisteria as a repository of artificial things. Here, drink up and let me pour you the last of the bottle.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean obliged, and Stragos was able to give them each a few fingers more before the bottle was drained. He settled himself back down behind his table and pulled something off the silver tray \endash  a slim file of some sort, wrapped in a brown cover with broken wax seals on three sides.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Artificial things. Just as you are artificial things, Master Kosta and Master de Ferra. Or should I say, Master Lamora and Master Tannen?\rquote\par
\par
\tab If Locke had possessed the strength to crush heavy Verrari crystal with \par
his bare hands, the Archon would have lost a goblet.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I beg your pardon,\rquote  said Locke, adopting a helpful, slightly confused smile, \lquote but I don\rquote t know anyone by those names. Jerome?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote There must be some mistake,\rquote  said Jean, picking up Locke\rquote s exact tone of polite bewilderment.\par
\par
\tab\lquote No mistake, gentlemen,\rquote  said the Archon. He slipped the file open and briefly examined the contents, about a dozen pages of parchment covered in neat black script. \lquote I received a very curious letter several days ago, through secure channels within my intelligence apparatus. A letter rich with the most singular collection of stories. From a personal acquaintance \endash  a source within the hierarchy of the Bondsmagi of Karthain.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Not even Jean\rquote s hands could squeeze a Verrari crystal goblet to fragments, Locke thought, or that moment might have seen the Archon\rquote s office decorated with an exploding cloud of shards and blood.\par
\par
\tab Locke gamely raised an eyebrow, refusing to give in just yet. \lquote The Bondsmagi? Gods, that sounds ominous. But, ah, what would Bondsmagi have to do with Jerome and myself?\rquote\par
\par
\tab Stragos stroked his chin while he skimmed the documents in the file. \lquote Apparently, you\rquote re both thieves from some sort of secret enclave formerly operating out of the House of Perelandro in Camorr\rquote s Temple District \endash  cheeky, that. You operated without the permission of Capa Vencarlo Barsavi, no longer among the breathing. You stole tens of thousands of Crowns from several dons of Camorr. You are jointly responsible for the death of one Luciano Anatolius, a buccaneer captain who hired a Bondsmage to aid his plans. Perhaps most importantly, you foiled those plans and crippled that Bondsmage. Overcame him, at close quarters. Extraordinary. You shipped him back to Karthain half-dead and quite mad. No fingers, no tongue.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Actually, Leocanto and I are from Talisham, and we\rquote re\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You\rquote re both from Camorr. Jean Estevan Tannen, which is your real name, and Locke Lamora \endash  which \i\f5 isn\rquote t\i0\f4  yours. That\rquote s emphasized for some reason. You\rquote re in my city as part of a scheme against that scrub Requin . . . supposedly, you\rquote ve been making preparations to break into his vault. \i\f5 Best\i0\f4  of luck there. Need we continue with your charade? I have many more details. It seems that the Bondsmagi have it in for you.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Those arseholes,\rquote  muttered Locke. \par
\par
   \tab\lquote I see you \i\f5 are\i0\f4  personally acquainted with them,\rquote  said Stragos. \lquote I\rquote ve hired a few of them in the past. They\rquote re a touchy bunch. So you\rquote ll admit to the truth of this report? Come, Requin is no friend of mine. He\rquote s in with the \i\f5 Priori\i0\f4 ; might as well be on their damn councils.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean looked at one another, and Jean shrugged. \lquote Very well,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote You seem to have us at quite a disadvantage, Archon.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote To be precise, I have you at three. I have this report extensively documenting your activities. I have you here at the centre of all my power. And now, for the sake of my own comfort, I have you on a leash.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Meaning what?\rquote  said Locke.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Perhaps my Eyes did \i\f5 not\i0\f4  embarrass me, gentlemen. Perhaps you two were \i\f5 intended\i0\f4  to spend a few hours in the sweltering chamber, to help you work up a thirst that needed quenching.\rquote  He gestured at Locke and Jean\rquote s goblets, which now held only dregs. \par
\par
\tab\lquote You put something else in the cider,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course,\rquote  said Stragos. \lquote An excellent little poison.\rquote  \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 4\par
\pard\ri720\par
\tab For a moment, the room was utterly silent save for the soft fluttering of artificial insect wings. Then Locke and Jean stumbled up from their chairs in unison, but Stragos didn\rquote t so much as twitch. \lquote Sit down. Unless you\rquote d prefer \i\f5 not\i0\f4  to hear exactly what\rquote s going on.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You drank from the same bottle,\rquote  said Locke, still standing.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course I did. It wasn\rquote t actually in the cider. It was in your goblets, painted into the bottoms. Colourless and tasteless. A proprietary alchemical substance, quite expensive. You should be flattered. I\rquote ve increased your net personal worth, heh.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I know a thing or two about poisons. What is it?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What would be the sense in telling you anything more? You might attempt to have someone assemble an antidote. As it stands, your only possible source for your antidote is me.\rquote  He smiled, every pretence of contrite gentility shed from his features like a moulted insect\rquote s husk. A very different Stragos was with them now, and there was a lash in his voice. \lquote Sit down. You\rquote re at my disposal now, obviously. You\rquote re not what I might have wanted, by the gods, but perhaps just what I can best put to use.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke and Jean settled back into their chairs, uneasily. Locke threw his goblet down onto the carpet, where it bounced and rolled to a halt beside Stragos\rquote s table.\par
\par
\tab\lquote You might as well know,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote that I\rquote ve been poisoned for coercive purposes before.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Have you? How convenient. Then surely you\rquote ll agree it\rquote s better than being poisoned for murderous ones.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What would you have us do?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Something useful,\rquote  said Stragos, \lquote Something grand. According to this report, you\rquote re the Thorn of Camorr. My agents brought me stories of you . . . the most ridiculous rumours, which now turn out to have been true. I thought you were a myth.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote The Thorn of Camorr \i\f5 is\i0\f4  a myth,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote And it was never just me. We\rquote ve always worked as a group, as a team.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course. No need to stress Master Tannen\rquote s importance to me. It\rquote s all here, in this file. I shall keep you both alive while I prepare for the task I have in mind for you. I\rquote m not ready to discuss it yet, so let us say that I\rquote m keeping you on retainer in the mean time. Go about your business. When I call, you will come.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Will we?\rquote  spat Locke.\par
\par
 \tab\lquote Oh, it\rquote s well within your power to leave the city \endash  and if you do, you will both die rather slow and miserable deaths before another season passes. And that would disappoint us all.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You could be bluffing,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Yes, yes, but if you\rquote re rational men, a bluff would hold you as surely as a real poison, would it not? But come now, Tannen. I have the resources \i\f5 not\i0\f4  to bluff.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote And what\rquote s to keep us from running after we\rquote ve received the antidote?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote The poison is latent, Lamora. It slumbers within the body for many, many months, if not years. I will dole out your antidote at intervals so long as you please me.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And what guarantee do we have that you\rquote ll continue to give us the antidote once we\rquote ve done whatever task you\rquote d set us to?\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote You have none.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote And no better alternatives.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Of course not.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab Locke closed his eyes and gently massaged them with the knuckles of his index fingers. \lquote Your alleged poison. Will it interfere with our daily lives in any way? Will it complicate matters of judgment, agility or health?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Not at all,\rquote  said Stragos. \lquote You won\rquote t notice a thing until the time for the antidote is well past, and then you\rquote ll notice a great deal all at once. Until then, your affairs will be unimpeded.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote But you have \i\f5 already\i0\f4  impeded our affairs,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote We\rquote re at a very delicate point in our dealings with Requin.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote He gave us strict orders,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote to do nothing suspicious while he sniffs around our recent activities. Disappearing from the streets in the care of the Archon\rquote s people would \i\f5 probably\i0\f4  qualify as suspicious.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Already taken into consideration,\rquote  said the Archon. \lquote Most of the people who pulled you two off the street are in one of Requin\rquote s gangs. He just doesn\rquote t know they work for me. They\rquote ll report seeing you out and about, even if others do not.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Are you confident that Requin is blind to their true loyalty?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods bless your amusing insolence, Lamora, but I\rquote m not going to justify my every order to you. You\rquote ll accept them like my other soldiers, and if you must trust, trust in the judgement that has kept me seated as Archon for fifteen years.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s our lives under Requin\rquote s thumb if you\rquote re wrong, Stragos.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s your lives under \i\f5 my\i0\f4  thumb, regardless.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Requin is no fool!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Then why are you attempting to steal from him?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We flatter ourselves,\rquote  said Jean, \lquote that we\rquote re\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote ll tell you why,\rquote  Stragos interrupted. He closed his file and folded his hands atop it. \lquote You\rquote re not just greedy. You two have an unhealthy lust for excitement. The contemplation of long odds must positively get you drunk. Or else why choose the life you have, when you could obviously have succeeded as thieves of a more mundane stripe, within the limits allowed by that Barsavi?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote If you think that little pile of papers gives you enough knowledge to presume so much\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You two are risk-takers. Exceptional, professional risk-takers. I have just the risk for you to take. You might even enjoy it.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote That might have been true,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote before you told us about the cider.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Obviously I know that what I\rquote ve done will give you cause to bear me malice. Appreciate my position. I\rquote ve done this to you because I respect your abilities. I \i\f5 can\rquote t\i0\f4  afford to have you in my service without controls. You\rquote re a lever and a fulcrum, you two, looking for a city to turn upside-down.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Why the hell couldn\rquote t you just hire us?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote How would money be sufficient leverage for two men who can conjure it as easily as you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote So the fact that you\rquote re screwing us like a Jeremite cot doxy is really a very sweet compliment?\rquote  said Jean. \lquote You fucking . . .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Calm down, Tannen,\rquote  said Stragos.  \par
\par
\tab\lquote Why should he?\rquote  Locke straightened his sweat-rumpled tunic and began tying his wrinkled neck-cloths back on in an agitated huff. \lquote You poison us, lay a mysterious task at our feet and offer no pay. You complicate our lives as Kosta and de Ferra, and you expect to summon us at your leisure when you condescend to reveal this chore. Gods. What about expenses, should we incur them?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You shall have any funds and materials you require to operate in my service. And before you get excited, remember that you\rquote ll account for every last Centira properly.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh, splendid. And what other perquisites does this job of yours entail? Complementary luncheon at the barracks of your Eyes? Convalescent beds when Requin cuts our balls off and has them sewn into our eye sockets?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I am not accustomed to being spoken to in this\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote\i\f5 Get\i0\f4  accustomed to it,\rquote  snapped Locke, rising from his chair and beginning to dust off his coat. \lquote I have a counter-proposal, one I urge you to entertain quite seriously.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Forget about this, Stragos.\rquote  Locke drew on his coat, shook his shoulders to settle it properly and gripped it by the lapels. \lquote Forget about this whole ridiculous scheme. Give us enough antidote, if there is one, to settle us for the time being. Or let us know what it is and we\rquote ll have our own alchemist see to it, with our own funds. Send us back to Requin, for whom you profess no love, and let us get on with robbing him. Bother us no further, and we\rquote ll return the favour.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote What could that possibly gain me?\rquote\par
\par
\par
\tab\lquote My point is more that it would allow you to keep everything you have now.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote My dear Lamora,\rquote  laughed Stragos with a soft, dry sound like an echo inside a coffin, \lquote your bluster may be sufficient to convince some sponge-spined Camorri mongrel don to hand over his coin-purse. It might even be enough to see you through the task I have in mind. But you\rquote re mine now, and the Bondsmagi were rather clear on how you might be humbled.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Oh? How\rquote s that, then?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Threaten me one more time and I shall have Jean returned to the sweltering chamber for the rest of the night. You may wait, chained outside in perfect comfort, imagining what it must be like for him. And the reverse, Jean, should \i\f5 you\i0\f4  decide to wax rebellious.\rquote\par
\par
\tab Locke clenched his jaw and looked down at his feet. Jean sighed, reached over and patted him on the arm. Locke nodded very slightly.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Good.\rquote  Stragos smiled without warmth. \lquote Just as I respect your abilities, I respect your loyalty to one another. I respect it enough to use it, for good and for ill. So you \i\f5 will\i0\f4  want to come at my summons, and accept the task I have for you . . . it\rquote s when I \i\f5 refuse\i0\f4  to see you that you will begin to have cause for concern.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote So be it,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote But I want you to remember.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Remember what?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote That I offered to let this go,\rquote  said Locke. \lquote That I offered to simply walk away.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods, but you \i\f5 do\i0\f4  think highly of yourself, don\rquote t you, Master Lamora?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Just highly enough. No higher than the Bondsmagi, I\rquote d say.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Are you suggesting that Karthain fears you, Master Lamora? Please. If that were so, they would have killed you already. No. They don\rquote t fear you \endash  they want to see you \i\f5 punished\i0\f4 . Giving you over to me to suit my own purposes would appear to accomplish that in their eyes. I daresay you\rquote ve good reason to bear them malice.\rquote\par
\par
\par
\tab\lquote Indeed,\rquote  said Locke.\par
\par
\tab\lquote Consider for a moment,\rquote  said Stragos, \lquote the possibility that I might not like them any more than you do. And that while I might use them, out of necessity, and freely accept windfalls they send in my direction . . . your service on my behalf might actually come to work against them. Doesn\rquote t that intrigue you?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Nothing you say can be taken in good faith.\rquote  Locke glowered. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Ahhh. That\rquote s where you\rquote re wrong, Lamora. With the benefit of time, you\rquote ll see how little need I have to lie about anything. Now, this audience is over. Reflect on your situation, and don\rquote t do anything rash. You may remove yourselves from the Mon Magisteria and return when summoned.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Wait,\rquote  said Locke, \lquote just\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab The Archon rose, tucked the file under his arm, turned and left the room through the same door he\rquote d used to enter. It swung shut immediately behind him with the clatter of steel mechanisms. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Hell,\rquote  said Jean.\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m sorry,\rquote  muttered Locke. \lquote I was \i\f5 so\i0\f4  keen to come to Tal fucking Verrar.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote It\rquote s not your fault. We were both eager to hop in bed with the wench; it\rquote s just shit luck she turned out to have the clap.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab The main doors to the office creaked open, revealing a dozen Eyes \par
waiting in the hall beyond. \par
\par
\tab Locke stared at the Eyes for several seconds, then grinned and cleared his throat. \lquote Oh, good. Your master has left strict instructions placing you at our disposal. We\rquote re to have a boat, eight rowers, a hot meal, five hundred solari, six women who know how to give a proper massage and\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab One thing Locke would say for the Eyes was that when they seized him and Jean to \lquote escort\rquote  them from the Mon Magisteria, they were firm without being needlessly cruel. Their clubs remained at their belts, and there were a minimal number of body-blows to soften the resolve of their prisoners. All in all, a very efficient bunch by which to be manhandled. \par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc 5\par
\par
\pard\ri720\tab They were rowed back to the lower docks of the Savrola in a long gig with a covered gallery. It was nearly dawn, and a watery orange light was coming up over the landside of Tal Verrar, peeking over the islands and making their seaward faces look darker by contrast. Surrounded by the Archon\rquote s oarsmen and watched by four Eyes with crossbows, Locke and Jean said nothing. \par
\par
\tab Their exit was quick; the boat simply drew up to the edge of one deserted quay and Locke and Jean hopped out. One of the Archon\rquote s soldiers threw a leather sack out onto the stones at their feet, and then the gig was backing away, and the whole damnable episode was over. Locke felt a strange daze and he rubbed his eyes, which felt dry within their sockets. \par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods,\rquote  said Jean. \lquote We must look as though we\rquote ve been mugged.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote We have been.\rquote  Locke reached down, picked up the sack and examined its contents \endash  Jean\rquote s two hatchets and their assortment of daggers. He grunted. \lquote Magi. Gods-damned Bondsmagi!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote This must be what they had in mind.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I hope it\rquote s \i\f5 all\i0\f4  they have in mind.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote They\rquote re not all-knowing, Locke. They must have weaknesses.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Must they really? And do you know what they are? Might one of them be allergic to exotic foods, or suffer poor relations with his mother? Some good that does us, when they\rquote re well beyond dagger-reach! Crooked Warden, why don\rquote t dog\rquote s arseholes like Stragos ever want to simply hire us for money? I\rquote d be\i\f5  happy\i0\f4  to work for fair pay.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No, you wouldn\rquote t.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Feh.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Stop scowling and think for a moment. You heard Stragos\rquote s report. The Bondsmagi know about the preparations we\rquote ve made for going after Requin\rquote s vault, but they don\rquote t know the \i\f5 whole\i0\f4  story. The important part.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Right . . . but what need would there be for them to tell Stragos everything?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote None, of course, but also . . . they knew where we were operating from in Camorr, but he didn\rquote t mention our history. Stragos spoke of Barsavi, but not Chains. Perhaps because Chains died before the Falconer ever came to Camorr and started observing us? I don\rquote t think the Bondsmagi can read our thoughts, Locke. I think they\rquote re magnificent spies, but they\rquote re not infallible. We still have some secrets.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Hmmm. Forgive me if I find that a cold comfort, Jean. You know who waxes philosophical about the tiniest weaknesses of enemies? The \i\f5 powerless\i0\f4 .\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote You seem resigned to that without much of a\emdash\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I\rquote m not resigned, Jean. I\rquote m angry. We need to cease being powerless as soon as possible.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Right. So where do we start?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Well, I\rquote m going back to the inn. I\rquote m going to pour a gallon of cold water down my throat. I\rquote m going to get into bed, put a pillow over my head and stay there until sunset.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote I approve.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Good. Then we\rquote ll both be well rested when it comes time to get up and find a black alchemist. I want a second opinion on latent poisons. I want to know everything there is to know about the subject, and whether there are any antidotes we can start trying.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Agreed.\rquote  \par
\par
\tab\lquote After that, we can add one more small item to our agenda for this Tal Verrar holiday of ours.\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Kick the Archon in the teeth?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Gods yes,\rquote  said Locke, smacking a fist into an open palm. \lquote Whether or not we finish the Requin job first. Whether or not there really is a poison! I\rquote m going to take his whole bloody palace and shove it so far up his arse he\rquote ll have stone towers for tonsils!\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote Any plans to that effect?\rquote\par
\par
\tab\lquote No idea. I\rquote ve no idea whatsoever. I\rquote ll reflect on it, that\rquote s for damn sure. But as for not being rash, well, no promises.\rquote\tab\par
\par
\tab Jean grunted. The two of them turned and began to plod along the quay, toward the stone steps that would lead laboriously to the island\rquote s upper tier. Locke rubbed his stomach and felt his skin crawling . . . he felt \i\f5 violated\i0\f4  somehow, knowing that something lethal might be slipping unfelt into the darkest crevices of his own body, waiting to do mischief. \par
\par
\tab On their right the sun was a burning bronze medallion coming up over the city\rquote s horizon, perched there like one of the Archon\rquote s faceless soldiers, gazing steadily down upon them.\par
\par
\cf1\tab Author's Notes: I have been deliberately unclear about what a "water engine" denotes in Locke's world; whether it involves a relatively early sort of steam boiler or a fairly advanced use of hydraulic pressure is left to the reader's preference. I myself am a bit inclined toward the latter, since Locke's world, in my mind, is about a century away from the effective use of steam for something like nautical propulsion or industry. \par
\par
\tab And faceless minions! I thought it would be fun to trot out the old cliche about the villain's minions hiding themselves behind masks, though you can't really ride that cliche to the hilt if they're not complete stumbling idiots. The Eyes of the Archon are meant to be pretty competent. And as for 'villain,' well... draw your own conclusions. I hope that Stragos' motives are sufficiently tangled by the end of the book for everyone to find the poor bastard somewhat satisfying.\par
\par
\tab Steam and clockwork are quite the things in speculative fiction these days. The 'steampunk' aesthetic, which had been simmering merrily as a sub-sub-genre for about two decades or so, give or take, has recently burst into the general consciousness. Jay Lake astutely summed up steampunk (I paraphrase here, but only slightly) as "an idyllic vision of the past as dreamt up by those who are several generations removed from the pastoral rural life, and wedded to an urban context." That pretty much describes yours truly... I love the wilderness, but my ideal of a fascinating simpler time would be more like the London of Sherlock Holmes than Tolkien's Shire. \par
\par
\tab I'd laugh at any attempt to broaden the definition of steampunk to include the Lamora books, but there is a definite proto-steam-clockwork-sort-of-aesthetic going on. The weird machines and curious devices in the cities Locke and Jean visit are intended to be a bulwark against boredom... both mine and yours. The very genesis of the Lamora novels was a sentence I wrote on a napkin in the winter of 2000, while sitting at a restaurant trying to brainstorm novel ideas: "Why does every city have to be another godawful boring medieval dirt town?" The answer is, they don't... and I hope that as this series continues, they never will be.    \cf0\par
\par
\pard\ri720\qc ***************************************\par
\pard\ri720\par
\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tqc\tx4512\expndtw-3\f0 An excerpt from \i\f1 Red Seas Under Red Skies\i0\f0\par
Copyright \'a9 Scott Lynch 2007\par
\i\f1 All rights reserved\par
\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tx0\i0\f0\par
\expndtw0 The right of Scott Lynch to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by him in accordance with the\par
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.\par
\par
\pard\ri720\sl330\slmult0\qc\tqc\tx4512 First published in Great Britain in 2007 by\par
Gollancz\par
An imprint of the Orion Publishing Group\par
Orion House, 5 Upper St Martin's Lane, London WC2H 9EA\par
\par
By permission of the author, this file may be freely copied and distributed\par
for the express reading pleasure of anyone wishing to sample the novel.\par
Any other use is strictly prohibited.\par
\par
Questions?\par
scott@scottlynch.us\par
http://www.scottlynch.us\par
http://www.twitter.com/scottlynch78\f4\par
}
 